Write It. Don't Send It Yet.

If you've got something burning you up that you wanna say, write it out as a reply. There. That got it out. Ahh. Breathing easier. But don't send it. Take that breather you earned and then come back to it from a cooler place.

It doesn't mean you need to hide your upset, or apply for a permit to protest, but choose your battles and execute them wisely, so you don't end up regretting how you communicated later. As Lao Tsu might have said (if I could ever have read that whole boring Art of War book), a war with no casualties is the best possible war. When high IQ & EQ communication hits a writer's block, sometimes the best thing is to simply say, "I need some time to think about my response." And if the conflict really requires a response right now, then obviously just do your best rather than wait for the perfect timing.

And yeah, going back to the writer, which is often my inner child when emotions pop up, is part of the process. It's like I'm holding his hand and showing him a better way, not like I just stole his pencil because he wrote something embarrassing. So what was he actually trying to say? A lot of the time it's just "that hurt."

Other times it's "I did this too." My friend Tyler saw a guy smoking in front of a baby and asked him if he thought that was wise. The guy asked if he thought it was wise to mind his own business, and Tyler said, "Well, I believe in Christ, so I thought you might care about life too." Afterward he wasn't sure he'd handled it right, or whether he should have thrown the first stone at all, since he'd smoked in front of a baby himself.

But Jesus also said to take the log out of your own eye first, and then "you will see clearly to take the speck out of your brother's eye." That's exactly what made Tyler the right person to say something. If you actually have the problem they have, and you want to call them out for it, call yourself out for it instead. What we came up with was something like, "Hey man, when I was younger I smoked in front of an infant, not realizing how selfish that was, and I notice you doing the same thing. I'd ask you to please have some compassion for him. I have a young child now, so this really touches me."

It's also how your voice sounds, though. You can say all the right words, but if the tone is accusatory, it doesn't matter. Tyler's an evangelical Christian who preaches on YouTube, so it meant a lot to me that he liked this take on what Jesus was saying.
