Feel the moment when attention says, “Whoa.”

Begin by noticing where your feet and body are, and taking a few moments to orient yourself to the room. You might breathe as you do so.

If you’re not already orienting yourself, silently say to yourself, “Whenever I notice myself orienting to my body and surroundings like this, it is a sign that it is time for me to wake up.”

Ask your Nurturer/Protector/Leader if they see anything.

Practice this a few times, so that you have a good rehearsal of waking up in a grounded and wider way.

Then take whatever final action you need to fully wake up, and do so.

Domain constraints: As with all cues , this one must be authored by you, must be something you can notice, must be reversible, and it can only be used for orienting yourself — not for determining what to do, intuiting information, squelching intuitive information, or for being controlled by another.

Psychological notes: This is a form of implementation intention , for which there is a good bit of research. A key paper by Peter Gollwitzer can be found here . I don’t know of any research specifically on using synchronicities in this manner, however.

Interestingly, some of the research on pattern perception implies that rehearsing synchronicities as you do in this technique might increase your tendency to perceive patterns where none exist (a tendency known as apophenia ). This tendency towards false positives in pattern perception is also correlated with psychosis spectrum conditions . See Blain et al and Grant et al for more. Perceiving patterns, of course, is not always a bad thing — it’s only a problem when it leads you to perceive patterns that aren’t really there.

If you find that doing this causes you to scan for synchronicities compulsively, makes it hard for you to sleep, makes you anxious, makes you feel like random events are telling you something, or makes it difficult for you to tell the difference between observations and your interpretations of them, stop using this technique.