What not to do

WARNING! Please remember that these are not commands, and should always be reality tested!

Do not engage in this as a hobby, do not be looking for downloads, do not play around with demons, Jinn or “Unattached Burdens” etc. If you feel you are losing your ability to reality test or function in daily life, seek assistance to stabilise.

Do not utilise self hypnosis while driving, bathing, swimming, operating machinery or equipment, looking after children or any other action which requires you to be actively engaged.

Do not use this technique to force memories, to try to convince yourself of something while in a trance state or for suppressing symptoms which should be medically addressed.

Do not use this to override basic emotional and physical commands (don’t ignore hunger, fatigue, pain, grief, anger, fear etc).

Do not prolong this state indefinitely or assume anything is true just because you think it is.

Do not allow one side to take over your personality, i.e. your inner child to start making your adult decisions, your protector to prevent you from loving etc. Remember, you have all of these aspects and need to utilise them all appropriately.

Do not utilise NLP to override protectors, convince yourself of something, manipulate others or heal yourself if your body is telling you not to.

Do not believe that simply because you have doubts, become distracted, resist the induction, don’t hear anything or say ‘No’ that the induction is working.

Do not assume that your unconscious mind will keep you safe, you should always take appropriate safety precautions.

Do not believe that simply because your body is doing something that you have underlying trauma, illnesses, toxicities or that you are being possessed, attached to or transformed etc. It may simply be your subconscious telling you something, but don’t assume it is true.

Do not believe that simply because you imagine that something has been repaired that your body, your neurology, your cells etc have been repaired or cured.

Do not programme yourself to do anything you are not consciously aware of, to be activated by a 3rd person without your knowledge, to make you do something, change your personality or make you amnesic etc. Even if you are consciously aware of the retrigger, it should serve a purpose, be something you can revisit and be able to discard if you don’t want it. Note: Simply saying ‘Cancel’ does not mean that it will be instantly cancelled!

If you are awake at the end of the session, make sure you return to your normal state, remembering who you are and state that the session is over.