Appendix F: Self-trust, outside guidance, and oracle-like states

<< Do you notice Synchronicity? (How to use it as a cue for reality testing)

A couple of reasons come to mind… Different people are more suggestible in different ways. Some people are more suggestible when working with someone else, some people are more suggestible when working by themselves. Some people are more suggestible to direct commands, others don’t respond well to direct commands at all and only respond to imagery or music or metaphors or spiritual feelings. Working with someone else offers the benefit of having someone else there with you who hopefully knows what they are doing. Working on your own offers the benefit of being able to do follow up work immediately, being able to correct things in real time, and being able to communicate more easily with internal protective parts.

I think doing it on your own is probably the best way to get in touch with your subconscious on a regular basis, but if you’re dealing with complex trauma or dissociation or blindspots or have a hard time not destabilizing or are working through relationship issues, it may be beneficial to work with someone who is skilled at helping people.

How to find someone to work with:

You need to find someone who is trained in helping people with your specific issues. Just because someone is trained in hypnosis and has certificates proving it doesn’t necessarily mean they know how to work with trauma or dissociation.

Talk to them, tell them what you’ve tried that has worked and what hasn’t. Tell them how direct you need them to be (or not be). Tell them what you are and are not comfortable with (touch, certain types of imagery, etc). Make sure that they explain to you how they will make sure that you stop if you don’t want to keep going (they may want to use strong encouragement to help you keep going, but if you say you want to stop they should definitely stop). Make sure they explain how they will make sure you are okay if things don’t go as planned, if you aren’t sure what came up for you, and how they will make sure that you come all the way out at the end of the session.