Body awareness and changing the amount of contact

NOTE: Some aspects of the somatic work involved in this process are based on the teachings of Peter Levine, particularly his books In an Unspoken Voice (2010) (especially chapters 5 and 7) and (with Maggie Phillips) Freedom from Pain (2012) (especially chapters 3-4), as well as chapter 4 of Healing Trauma . They deal with concepts such as tracking, using resources, titration, pendulation, and the various levels of experience (sensations, imagery, behavior, emotion, and meaning) that can be helpful for healing. When we suggest trying something here, we are not making a specific claim as to the physiological impact of the work, but merely offering something that might be helpful.

Working with the inner child and developing the ability to be a good “adult” to the child

NOTE: Much of the material in this section is dealt with in more detail in the companion Inner Child Self-Love Reparenting Guide . It discusses issues such as borrowing adulthood, providing love without requiring trust, practical and interpersonal life skill issues, spiritual struggles, differentiation, and the importance of other peers who are doing the same work. The exercises here are meant to be done in conjunction with that material.

NOTE: Some of the material in this section is based on the teachings of Silvan Tomkins (see Healing the Divided Self , especially pages 148-153 and 171-174) on “renurturing,” including somatic aspects and how to develop the capacity to be nurturing. Some of it is based on the teachings of Peter Levine and Maggie Kline, particularly their book Trauma Through a Child’s Eyes , especially chapters 4-5 and 10. Their material has to do with actual children and how individuals respond differently to various approaches, as well as how to be more attuned to children and how to be a better caregiver to them. We are adapting it to an interpersonal process involving three adults, all of whom are adult human beings, and thus the process of “borrowing” adulthood can follow the sequence we have outlined here.