Also, be aware that the goal of reparenting is not to be as good as a child or a baby. The goal is to be better at being yourself. You want to feel more supported and connected. If the language of parts does not suit you, or even makes you feel more divided, feel free to use whatever language or metaphor makes sense. Maybe you frame it in terms of signals or feelings or younger states or whatever helps.

Playing and resting while remaining an adult

It can be helpful to engage in playful or restful activities in a way that’s appropriate for a younger state, but while maintaining the reality-testing abilities of an adult. The younger state of your personality can look for things that are fun or interesting in the world. Maybe you play with a fun texture, draw something fun, move your body around, talk to a plushie in a baby voice, or whatever sounds interesting. Just be aware that you are not actually a child, pet, doll, or anything else that’s owned by somebody else.

Similarly, you can rest in a way that’s appropriate for a younger state, while still maintaining an adult’s abilities. You don’t have to be helpless. You just take some time to not make decisions for a set period of time. You put off tasks you’re supposed to be doing, but make sure you put them somewhere you’ll see them later, and you maintain an internal “adult” who’s keeping watch.

Talking with your non-dominant hand

If it feels fake to talk out loud or visualize conversations, you can always write them out. Some people like to have their “child” or “protector” talk with their non-dominant hand, and it usually results in charmingly awkward handwriting. Then they answer as an adult with their dominant hand. Here’s an example:

Non-dominant hand: I don’t trust you.

Dominant hand: I hear you. Even though you don’t trust me, I still love you. What have I done to make you not trust me? I know I can’t convince you to trust me, but I can at least listen to you. After that, I’d like to make a small promise to you, so you can start trusting me again.

Non-dominant hand: What kind of promise?

Dominant hand: Something small and easy that I can do today. Maybe I promise to eat something, or clean off my desk, or not text somebody that’s bad for me.