Come all the way back

To come out of an altered state, reverse the process you used to enter one. If you floated, go back down, bringing yourself back to the weight you’ve chosen to have. If you made yourself small, reverse the process, if you met a younger part or parts of yourself, tell them that now is not the time to work with them, that you are complete with yourself at this time, and that their experiences are in the past. Reassure them that their body belongs to you, an adult who can take care of them. If you traveled in any way, use the same process to return that you used to go. When you return, tell yourself that the only things you are bringing back with you are those that you consciously decide to bring back.

The only things I am bringing back with me at this time are those which I can use effectively in my life at this time. All other things will remain in a safe place until I am able to use them in a positive way. All commands which have been given at this time are now completed. The only command I am bringing back into my ordinary state of consciousness is that which I have consciously chosen for myself at this time, either as an intention for my ordinary life, or one which will cue me to work with this at a later time. This command will not continue to affect me in an altered state of consciousness. I am now returning to my ordinary state of consciousness, as myself, in my body, with my adult judgment.

Count yourself back to awareness, “One, feeling your body and its weight.” “Two, returning to your normal breathing pattern.” “Three, becoming aware of your surroundings.” “Four, moving your fingers, toes, shoulders, and your eyes.” “Five, opening your eyes, back to your ordinary state of consciousness, with a clear head, your session is now over.”

When you open your eyes, be sure to orient yourself completely. Tell yourself what day it is, or what date it is. Look to your left and right, near and far. Move around a bit before getting up. When you do get up, make sure that you are completely oriented and alert. Write down whatever came up for you, and any actions you need to take as a result. Then go about doing something normal.