I think that's a much better sentence to have than yet another propoganda video of cute kids running around with vegetables.

The Mother is Primary, The Village is Real, both are needed.

As I have stated before, I agree that Mothers should be raising their children, but with in a Community, with In a "Village". Not a village that takes the children away from the mother, but a village that helps the mother care for her children in all aspects. From bringing them food, to watching them, to teaching them, to keeping them safe, to playing with them, and even many of the jobs that are supposed to be the job of the father.

One of the most important parts for children I feel is the Community aspect. If you have not read Continuum Concept by Jean Liedloff, I highly recommend it. It may be somewhat idealistic, considering it is written by a non Ye'kuan and she is describing the ways of the Ye'kuana tribe, but regardless, it shows many of the benefits of a community living situation for children. From being carried as a baby, to having multiple age groups around at all times, to having someone to interact with when the parent(s) are exhausted, there are many benefits to a community living situation. While some of these can be simulated in a nuclear family/household setting, it is not the same as being in a real village.

As for experimenting with children sleeping apart from their parents and living apart from their parents, I do not think it is a good idea. This was tried in the Israeli Kibbutz's and ultimately was phased out, due to a combination of things, including research into child development, parent preference, and natural social progression. While I think that children can benefit from excellent group care, and from being surrounded by multiple loving adults, it should not be in place of attachment to the parent(s).

I would love to see something like the Children's Place at Tamera though. I am biased though, I like anything that will enhance a child's life, as long as it is not contrary to the parent/child relationship.