Jealousy Can Capture Monogamy or Free Love

Any interesting community will, sooner or later, reorganize around attraction and pair-bonding. Unlike in a city, where two people can move away from each other after they stop dating, in a small community it’s likely they’ll still be in each other’s orbit, sharing spaces, tasks, meetings, kids, friends, etc. So it becomes the community’s problem when a couple develops jealousy or breaks up, because it will affect the community.

Many people think the primary tension here is monogamy vs. free love, but that’s one level downstream from where we need to look. (A more in-depth explanation of this idea is in my Romance Guide .) The problem is that, whether you’re practicing monogamy or “free love,” being in close quarters with people is going to bring up more jealousy than you might expect, and jealousy tends to take over every system it enters.

Whether you’re practicing rigid monogamy or a version of “free love” that hasn’t been informed by adequate internal pl/ork, you’re going to be expressing the same fears and issues of possession. Calling a relationship something different doesn’t make that stuff go away.

People should be able to explore a variety of relationship configurations and agreements, on their own terms.

The community will need to make sure that people aren’t compelled to stay in any particular relationship agreement in order to have housing, kids, community membership, other basic necessities.

Groups like ZEGG and Tamera have been experimenting in this area for decades, and have some good ideas to offer. But the point is not that everyone should do what they’re doing, the point is that they’re not pretending that a group of 20 people can all just be buddies and have no erotic lives.

Jealousy cannot be allowed to run the show. It will come up, and will need to be allowed, explored, and released.

This will require a lot of group support and enforcement, and there will still be disagreements, but it’s the only way to actually make this work.