It is housed in the community, not in a specific professional or guru or emotionally codependent founder.

It doesn’t overlap with the container, so that the person you’re talking to about your feelings doesn’t have power over your membership, or your work, or your housing, or your children, or your medicine, or the evidentiary record of your conflicts. This is how we avoid parasitism of one sphere by another, keeping peer care from becoming its own status hierarchy.

It knows its limits and is able to refer to outside or expert help when appropriate.

It deals with jealousy and conflict BEFORE they end up as line items at the bottom of meeting agendas.

(See also: my Romance Guide , for a guide to dealing with dyads regardless of what your founding document says about romance)

Medicine pl/ork

This refers to the careful use of serious plant medicine guided by peers, not by a special shaman.

It needs to be careful, with appropriate screening, sober sitters, emergency plans, integration, and other boundaries. While I think it would be a pure experience to start a community with people on medicine and see what rules they want to create for themselves, I don't recommend it.

The container: membership, land, resources, governance, children, exit

As I’ve said, I’m interested in communities that exist with little to no money. Getting there will probably take three stages.

First, basic life within the community is decoupled from money. You don’t need to pay other members of the community to eat, live, be taken care of, use tools, get an education, get transportation, etc. You CAN bring in money from work outside the community, but if you do, you contribute an agreed upon amount to the common. I think this is probably the most reasonable place to start for most communities.

At some point, money earned outside or via community businesses comes into the community purse. No one earns or accumulates money while they’re part of the community. This has been done for many years by the Bruderhof, where my dad spent 17 years, and is the current setup at Twin Oaks and a few other income-sharing communities.

Eventually, the community doesn’t use money even on the outside, but meets needs directly, and trades in goods, gifts, work, and obligations. I haven’t seen a well-documented modern community that’s gotten to this point, and it may be impossible to get there due to the requirements of external governments, who want their taxes in a specific form. Thus, the community may end up as mostly moneyless, with a small collective part interfacing with the outside currency-based world (like paying property taxes on your land).

Even if you remove money, you still have to deal with scarcity and economic power, in terms of food, housing, tools, land, medicine, transportation, outside world currency, etc.

These things just don’t lend themselves to spiritual ecstasy in the same way. I don’t think you can have a great vision trip about provisional membership policy.

You can’t buy your way out of it with a beautiful piece of land, or rely on peer counseling to improve your membership process, or use medicine to deal with exit agreements.

The first three are the inside of the community; the fourth is the container for those things.

You can try to not deal with these things, but eventually, they’ll come back and bite you in a context where you have land and labor and resources at stake.