Then another, even bigger influencer brought it up. People flooded the comments, essentially trying to find other people to join their communes, like you’d normally find a second-hand sofa on Instagram.

The Freeloader Problem

One of the oldest comments is an important point to address: many people don’t want to be responsible for themselves, let alone an anarchist commune where everything is equally owned by everyone, and therefore no-one.

This comment, along with a lot of other comments under this post about communes, made for an interesting discussion about political philosophy, something you don’t normally find on Instagram!

While this comment is far more applicable to large-scale experiments in socialism than in small communes, it’s worth responding to anyway, as some people just prefer to not be responsible. It’s also a problem in many communes that everyone owns everything, which means responsibility gets distributed to a handful of people who end up becoming the de-facto leaders anyway, simply due to everyone else abdicating responsibility.

This is something that needs to be handled carefully in any communal arrangement where people share ownership – otherwise you’re going to end up with freeloading, or a handful of people doing all the work. It’s naive to think that if you remove all the ‘bosses’ from a community, everyone will suddenly stop being passive, selfish, thieving and suffer from learned helplessness.

Another problem is that the desire for people to revert to a more ‘natural’ way of living together in community far outstrips their knowledge of how to actually do this. Most people don’t know why past attempts have failed, nor do they appreciate how complicated things can get when you introduce things like money, kids, jealousy and questions around ownership into the mix.

I’m not trying to recruit people for any community I’m setting up, but I will be buying some land soon and people may gravitate towards it. All of the points raised in this article apply to me as much as anyone else!