A different large influencer brought up the idea of communes, and people started recruiting under his post. This is probably not the best place to be recruiting for a community, but I thought the comments were fascinating.

The Freeloader Problem

Not everyone commented with interest. The oldest response to this idea came up pretty quickly: the idea that people don’t want the responsibility that would be required of them if we actually had a functioning anarchism where we could actually have true communal ownership of property. Things that belong to everyone are very often taken care of by no one.

This leads to some interesting comment-thread discussions about political philosophy, which you don’t normally find on Instagram.

This comment is more applicable to the general idea of trying to enact socialism on a large scale, but it’s worth noting that this is a real problem even for smaller communes too. Some people are just happier to put the responsibility on someone else. It’s easy for a few “leaders” (even in a place that claims to have no leaders) to gain a lot of power just because people are willing to give it to them.

This is something that has to be dealt with when things are communally owned, otherwise, the people who are actually doing the work will get very tired very fast. It’s naive to think that simply eliminating the possibility of having a “boss” will eliminate the potential for people to be passive, selfish, thieving, or helpless.

Another problem is that a lot of people are eager to go back to a “more natural” way of living together, but they don’t know enough about why past attempts have failed, and they don’t know what they’re going to need to deal with once they’ve got some land and some people living together.

I am not currently recruiting for a community or attempting to start one, which makes it easier for me to write an article like this. I do plan to buy land at some point, and I’m okay with the idea that people may naturally be drawn to living near me. But all of the warnings in this article apply to me, too.