The Medicine Part, Without Pretending It Isn’t There

The landscape of psychedelic legalization has been changing faster than most literature in this space has been updated. As of this writing, Oregon has allowed licensed psilocybin service centers since 2023, Colorado has set up a complex natural medicine regulatory system being licensed since 2025, and New Mexico's Medical Psilocybin Act has passed in 2025. Psychiatrists in Australia can prescribe psilocybin or MDMA in limited circumstances since 2023.

It's important to note that this has been a bumpy road. For example, the FDA issued a Complete Response Letter (i.e., we need more data to approve this) for the submitted MDMA drug application in 2024. And the laws in Portugal, who some lazily describe as having legalized all drugs, only decriminalize small amounts for personal use, and trafficking is still criminal.

The main thing to know is that the laws vary widely depending on country, state, substance, religious status, etcetera. If you are building a community centered around medicine, talk to the relevant legal professionals in your area.

Despite this, most psychedelic communities avoid discussing the use of psychedelics. This is due to the lingering social stigma attached to psychedelics, and, even where legal, the potential for ignorant reactions from parents of participants, neighbors, insurance companies, local officials, and so forth.

I am writing about it here because not writing about it would falsify the model I am putting forth. Also, many people here will be familiar with my writing on psychedelics ( loveyhuasca , Haoma , etc.) and it wouldn't be honest to not write about it here.

The case against building a community around medicine

The Global Ayahuasca Survey found a variety of physical and mental adverse effects to be common, though severe effects were much less common and context is of course very important. One of the main issues is that these medicines can open people up faster than they can process what has come up.

Another issue is that these medicines attract people who want to experience and talk about the glorious revelations they've had and are less interested in the more mundane followthrough needed in community. Building a community around revelatory experiences is generally not a good idea.

The case for using medicine in community

From my experience, using psychedelics in community has a number of benefits. Obviously, it's great for breaking down defenses, creating bonds, and all the other messy interpersonal dynamics that can emerge. This can be good or bad depending on the maturity of the community.

Community Is What Makes Psychedelics Pl/ork Best!

Aside from the benefit of community during the experience, community is the place to integrate your experiences. Often people have clear insights while on psychedelic medicines but then return to the same environment where they got stuck