The Most Extreme Example

I can tell you one shocking personal story that will make you never trust hypnotists again who maintain that you can’t be manipulated through hypnotism:

My friend P. has a friend named V. V. is a 33rd-degree Free Mason. V. has the ability to get anyone to strip naked and have sex with him within 3 seconds, even via phone call. How is this possible? The only way it could be possible, that I know of, is if people are already hypnotized by mass media/devices with a trigger word that is known by the elites.

Do not let any strong state, charismatic person, sexual charge, spiritual claim, or authority figure replace the adult self. Legitimate influence can survive questions, sleep, boundaries, and time.

Affirmations Done Right

My dad always said: “Always, and in everything, expect the very best. But be prepared to take what you get. The best might come afterwards.” That’s a better affirmation than what most people think of as affirmation, because it’s not telling you something which you know to be false in the present. If you say “I am beautiful” but you know that’s not true, then you’re challenging your beliefs, and if you’re challenging your beliefs you should have some argument or reason why they are wrong, otherwise it’s bullying.

Another quote I use all the time from my dad… when someone asks me “How’s it going?” I say “Better & better!” This really confuses a lot of people. Some think it’s amazing that I’m always doing better. Some ask if I was sick or something. But it’s doing multiple jobs. On the one hand, it’s deflecting from the fake question because most people don’t actually want to hear how you are doing in detail anyway. On the other hand, more importantly, it’s reprogramming your mind to remove you from tunnel vision. You might be sad now, but if you say, “I am sad” then you’re subtly identifying with the sadness and it keeps you stuck. It’s best to say, “I’m feeling sad now, but I’m doing better and better, every day, in every way!” That’s more like a mission statement than a historical analysis. Although you can also re-evaluate your history as lessons to make that true.

Try it out right now and see how it feels!
