This is not to say that peer led ceremonies are ever casual. In fact, since the authority is spread around, there needs to be more competence, and some things are a must: screening for contra-indications (both medical and psychiatric), reviewing medications (including medication combinations), having the right kind of sober sitter present, and knowing in advance what kind of situations would require professional help or going to the ER.

Also, I am especially cautious about some medicines and protocols that I see as more destabilizing and/or presenting more of a medical burden. This includes some uses of ketamine and MDMA and bufo. My reasons are given in those articles, respectively, since they need more space.

Using medicine is secondary to all of the other pl/ork that I list above: reparenting, developing somatic capacity, and learning to do peer counseling. The medicine can deepen an existing practice, but it can't be a pharmacological short cut to what takes several months of real relationship with other people.

This pre-requisite also takes care of another issue in one shot: experience collectors. If you’re not willing to spend six months developing the capacity to listen to another person without trying to “fix” them, you’re probably not going to come out of a ceremony any more relationally mature than you were before, no matter how many cool geometric shapes you see.

The other aspect of this is integration: your life. Ceremony opens something. Did anything change? Look at your life in the weeks after a ceremony. Look at your relationships. Look at how you’re acting. Look at how you’re sleeping. Look at how you’re making decisions. Look at how you’re handling frustration without defining it as a new “spiritual emergency.”

All of the “supports” are important: preparation, nutrition, screening for drug interactions, making sure the dose is appropriate, and having a plan for dealing with emergencies. They matter more than ceremony aesthetics. My current safety material is at Altered States Triage.

Finally, there are the legal issues. These vary a lot, and they are not always well-defined. As a community, you need to write down what is and isn’t allowed, which activities are private (to the individual, to a group in the community, or to the community vs the outside), and what kinds of activities have been reviewed from a legal standpoint. “I don’t think anybody around here has ever heard of that” is information, but it’s not the same thing as a legal opinion.