Slow steady may win the race, but turtles have problems too!

Going slowly can show you how somebody’s moods move over time, how they treat you, and how they treat other people. It still can’t tell you how good the sex will be or how either of you will act afterward.

You can know somebody for twenty years and then discover on the first night that the polarity isn’t there, touch feels wrong, smell feels wrong, your desire levels or kinks don’t fit, one person is sexually shut down, or the bodies just don’t connect.

At the beginning of my sexual relationship with Bee, she told me, “You’re going to get a lot better at sex.” Funny thing is, I don’t think I did. She got much better at receiving me.

About eighteen months later, she could orgasm almost immediately from penetration without foreplay, have dozens of orgasms in an hour, and squirt so much we were flooding the bed. We were often making love for at least four hours a day. It didn’t feel like I had learned some amazing technique. Something that developed between us had changed what her body could do with me.

After we broke up, I was extremely curious whether that would simply transfer to another man. Last year she told me that in the five years since me, she had tried having sex with somebody else once. It felt so bad that she stopped after about a minute.

So “trainable” doesn’t quite describe what I mean. Some sexual abilities can obviously be trained, but some sexual responsiveness seems to be co-created between particular people.

The strangest part was that Bee’s body kept opening more while consciously she was trusting me less and becoming more sure that she wanted to separate. She used to say, “I can’t stand you! but i LOVE you and I don’t know why!”

Women are always demanding to know why I love them. Apparently they’re allowed not to know.

It felt like her body knew a truth her mind didn’t want to hear. She was still becoming more sure she wanted to leave, though.

At Temple University, I had a Colombian lawyer as an English/Spanish conversation partner. Eventually we became casual sex friends. We had things we liked doing together, mainly sex, but basically nothing else in common. It ended badly because she was falling in love and I wasn’t. The sexual fit was real. It didn’t create the rest of the compatibility.

Some of those things might get better if both partners are committed to helping each other through it. Sometimes bad sexual fit still feels like, “Let’s just be friends!”

Saying, “The sex isn’t working for me,” may sound like, “I only love you if the sex is good.” But universal love doesn’t make someone special. It isn’t romance. It’s the basis of any good relationship of any kind.

I can still love you and not want to be in a romantic relationship with you. Romantic love generally needs good sex too, or we’re friends who care deeply about each other.

So go slowly if you can. Just don’t imagine that means you know everything. You learn what you can before sex. Sex itself tells you other things.
