Why Communities Keep Dying in the Same Two Ways

Most communes of my acquaintance went wrong from the inside, in one of two ways.

The secular failure

The secular ones had a solution for how to distribute property or labor, but when the deep waters of jealousy or childhood hurt or humiliation or attraction or resentment or grief came up, the group was without a common method for dealing with it. The feelings just became agenda items.

The Federation of Egalitarian Communities and other income-sharing groups have developed some sophisticated systems for dealing with issues of labor, money, and decision-making. But the best meeting procedure in the world won’t make two people who hate each other stop hating. At best, it will determine who gets to talk about their hatred, and whether the motion needs a second.

Eventually, when people are together long enough, politics will become a way of carrying emotional material that nobody can name. It will be an argument about a schedule or committee or noise or food or some policy or other, but it won’t be about that.

The spiritual failure

This comes about when the community realizes the importance of embracing a transformation from within, and then funnels it through a particular person, usually the founder, a teacher, a channel or some other special knower of how things really are.

The Farm, in Tennessee, at its largest about 1,500 people, had many beautiful values. But in the early days, the community’s spirituality and social life was deeply shaped by Stephen Gaskin. From what former members have shared, the community’s doctrine ran deep into members’ intimate decisions. It’s one thing to talk about a universal consciousness. It’s another to struggle to escape one man’s opinions.

Both approaches fail for symmetric reasons. Secular approaches fail to address the inner life (while distributing power), whereas spiritual approaches do address the inner life but concentrate power.

The deeper problem is that someone has too much authority, or rather, carries authority earned in one domain into the others. The founder who is a good teacher, the therapist who really helps people, the farmer or business manager that actually carries a lot of the economy. The danger starts when one person has the ability to define the problem, control the information related to the problem, define what the solution is, and make it hard for people to leave or express disagreement.

I want a way to work in depth that no guru owns, and a way of being in a community with distributed authority where nobody has to come in pre-healed. That needs peer practice, and enough play that the community doesn’t turn into a permanent repair shop.
