STYLE SAMPLE FIREWALL: The following articles calibrate voice only. All factual and medical content requires current verification.

===== CANCER ARTICLE =====
As I post this article today (Dec. 9, 2025), one of my best lifelong friends just had her father pass away from cancer (and other comorbidities) while she was meditating with him. Life and death are both sacred processes. I wish him an easy transition to his next life, and I pray his daughter will take his passing well.

My mom, Judy, in the photo above, died from breast cancer in 2022. She acquired this breast cancer right after my father died in a car crash, and struggled with it for 20 years. Unfortunately, she didn’t try most of the things on this list in time, but she died drug-free, at home, with a smile on her face, and I am blessed to have been able to care for her in her last days. 🥰🥲 After she died, I’ve actually felt closer to her than when she was alive. I feel her presence whenever I think of her. I’m sure she’s an angel up there now, and she was mostly an angel on Earth as well.

Interestingly, she discovered a remedy that almost nobody knows about, but after she discovered it, she totally forgot about it! One day, she was in so much hip pain that she could not rest on the bed, as the cancer had spread to her bones. So, she started talking to her hip, sending it love and healing, and as she was doing that, her whole body melted into infinite cosmic orgasms, which is probably the most powerful spiritual peak experience she ever had in her life. I’ve also had other friends who had incredible peak spiritual experiences (while sober) but totally forgot about them. It’s quite an interesting phenomenon!

Anyway, treating cancer has been a topic that I’ve been researching for over a decade now, thanks to my mom, and so I thought I should write this article since people sometimes do ask what I would recommend. In writing the article, I really underestimated the amount of time it would take — there are people who dedicate their whole lives to writing on this subject— but I’ve done extensive additional research, which taught me that some treatments are not as effective as I thought (like GcMAF), and exposed me to a vast array that I never heard of before. If you have any treatment you’d like me to research, leave a comment and I will do my best.

Even better, you can use my instructions here to do your own research in the way I do. You will find some ideas and prompts in that article that you won’t find elsewhere, and I hope that you get a better picture of your options. You really do need to Do Your Own Research though. I started doing research on anecdotes at this cancer Facebook group a month ago, but it seems I can no longer access it. There were some genuine folks sharing stories of their own cures, and a few folks in that group trying to scam people. The only person in that group that I’ve seen highly recommended for helping folks cure stage IV cancers is Fruitful Purpose on FB, but now I can’t find them either, and I am not convinced about them since they never responded to my message, and their posts are written with ChatGPT.

Share with a friend who has cancer.

Share


What Causes Cancer?
In Ayurveda and Classical Chinese Medicine (and even in the modernized TCM), cancer is caused by excess of cold in the metabolic furnace (mapping onto the Warburg theory of anaerobic metabolism), which then disrupts the flow of heat, leading to localized hotspots (tumors).

In modern allopathic medicine, cancer has historically been seen to be a result of inherited DNA polymorphisms and epigenetic (non-inherited) mutations, usually related to carcinogens (toxins that cause cancer). The number of carcinogens we are exposed to has been growing at about the same rate as cancer rates. As Dr. Flora notes, this oncology perspective is becoming more nuanced and closer to functional medicine.

In functional medicine, the causes of cancer mirror the causes of disease in general. We can summarize with Dr. Alex Vazquez’ “FINDSEX” framework:

F - Food & Basic Nutrition: Identifying and addressing dietary triggers of inflammation, such as industrial oils, pesticides, industrial dairy, food allergies or sensitivities, and implementing foundational nutritional plans (e.g., Paleo-Mediterranean, low-carbohydrate).

I - Infections: Addressing chronic or stealth infections, including viral, bacterial, and fungal, as well as gut “polydysbiosis” (microbial imbalance). Dr. Vazquez highlights the importance of sunshine for vitamin D to build the immune system.

N - Nutritional Immunomodulation: Using specific nutrients (like vitamin D, vitamin A, and fatty acids) to regulate and support the immune system.

D - Dysmetabolism: Correcting metabolic and mitochondrial dysfunction. This component includes addressing issues like insulin resistance, mitochondrial dysfunction, and the mTOR and ERS/UPR (Endoplasmic Reticulum Stress/Unfolded Protein Response) pathways.

S - Special Considerations: Addressing lifestyle and psychosocial factors that contribute to inflammation, primarily Sleep, Sociopsychology, and Stress. Lack of loving Sex is also a factor, although he doesn’t mention it. Having strong, complex intimate social relationships (i.e. not just roommates) halves your overall risk of being ill or dying from any cause (Hold-Lunstad, et al, 2010).

E - Endocrine Imbalances: Assessing and correcting hormonal imbalances, such as those related to the thyroid, adrenal glands (e.g., cortisol), and sex hormones. Emotions, especially when suppressed, are another cause.

X - Xenobiotic Immunotoxicity: Identifying and reducing the body’s load of environmental toxins (xenobiotics, such as vaccines causing turbo-cancers, toxic metals, pesticides, mold, and other known carcinogens) that can poison mitochondria and disrupt the immune system.

Treating Cancer
In this section, we will first examine the conventional treatment options, then compare to how cancer is treated in alternative clinics, and then finally we will list various remedies which are usually safer and often more effective than some of the brute-force conventional remedies.

Before we begin though, it’s important to know that whenever any doctor tells you that it’s been proven that allopathic oncology is 2.5x more effective than alternative cancer care, they are referencing a pair of extremely flawed studies from 2017 and 2018 by the same authors tied to US Government & Big Pharma. You can read Gemini’s takedown of these studies. (Note, Gemini was originally also using these studies to tell me that alternatives don’t work, but when I asked it to critique the studies it based that on, it realized there’s no solid basis for the common wisdom on this.)

That being said, standard of care treatment has advanced so rapidly in the past 10 years, according to oncologists like Dr. Flora, that it’s almost unrecognizably different! So rapidly it has advanced, in fact, that it’s also regressing just as rapidly, because there are so many new complicated tests and treatments, that oncologists are completely overwhelmed with information, and begging AI to help them, as Dr. Flora also noted.

While there are certain types of cancer, like melanoma, that are now much less deadly than they were even 10 years ago, on average, it’s unclear if there is much actual advance in average survival despite all the whiz-bang new incredible technologies. On the other hand, cancer will probably be eliminated once we are all cyborgs, by 2030.

Why mainstream science dismisses alternative treatment:
Impossible placebo comparisons: Most of the treatments cannot be compared to placebo (for example, DMSO, hyperthermia, IV Vitamin C, etc., the patient can feel the effects easily and know it’s not placebo).

Shotgun approach: The alternative treatment protocol is often a combination of so many treatments, often targeting improved overall health. Thus, the only way to measure the success is to look at the overall 5-year remission rate for the alternative protocols vs conventional protocols for similar cancers at the same stage. When selecting a clinic, ask them to send you this data relevant to your case.

Locked Out of Science: “Alternative” medicine cannot access statistical legitimacy infrastructure:

Major journals require IRB-approved trials. These are legally restricted to pharma or academic settings.

Funding pipelines are biased toward patentable treatments.

Thus, even well-documented non-toxic outcomes never enter meta-analyses or survival databases — leading to the illusion that “no evidence” exists, when in fact no permission to collect evidence exists.

Alternative Cancer Clinics are often either outright scams (like Hope4Cancer), or built more like super expensive spas ($20-40k for a few weeks of treatment) than actual science-based clinics. When you find a clinic you are considering going to, you should check reviews in many places, consult with Gemini, and get a good script of questions (which Gemini can help with) so that you do a proper interview before selecting the clinic. One obvious question is what are their cure rates and how do they measure their successes, especially for your type of cancer?


So far, I’ve found exactly one alternative cancer clinic that is truly alternative (not just integrative) and leading the way with science and results:

Immunocine Clinic in Cancun seems to be at the forefront of Dendritic Cell Vaccines (DCVs), a new type of therapy in which your tumor cells are extracted, and their protein antigens or mRNA are attached or inserted into your own memory T immune cells, then re-injected. The idea is to make your immune system see your cancer the way it sees a virus. The overall DCV evidence is mixed, because different clinics are using different methods. Immunocine clinic has developed the double-loading method (injecting tumor mRNA into memory T cells, and also feeding them tumor proteins to load the outside), and they only use this treatment for cancer (so, not the alternative “shotgun” approach).

Immunocine says that while traditional DCVs only work for certain cancers, their method works more broadly. They have 5 stars out of 28 reviews on Google. I don’t like that their site is written by ChatGPT, but Gemini has confirmed that they really are at the forefront of DCV science, currently doing a Phase 2 trial for their DCV in USA with FDA Fast-Track status. This shows they are not just a bunch of hippies who think they know something, nor a bunch of scammers.


Aside from Immunocine, I made a list of 20 or so of the top clinics on HealNavigator, but the reviews often don’t match up with reddit and google maps reviews because they are curated and sponsored on HealNavigator. I fed that list of 20 into Gemini to sift thru to find the ones with the best reviews on forums and Google maps, as well as passing Gemini’s internal scam detection logic. Only 3 of them came out as recommendations:




How Alternative Oncology Differs From Standard Of Care
conventional vs alternative treatment




Alternative Remedies Ranked
Ranking cancer remedies is very challenging, because the best ones often have less scientific evidence, and they often work synergistically. The suggested approach is to use all of the safe natural remedies together, and then add the less safe remedies on (carefully, slowly) if you aren’t seeing results. Keep in mind that different cancers at different stages have different vulnerabilities, which is why using just one treatment often fails.

Meditation is a remedy you might not expect me to rank as #1. Although we do have proof (and more) that it can aid the body’s own natural healing capacities significantly, we don’t have anything other than case reports of people healing specifically cancer with only meditation. The good news is, beginners are just as capable as masters of rapidly altering their epigenetics with meditation!

Whether meditation will cure your cancer greatly depends on what the cause of your cancer is. Many times, cancer is the result of stress, lack of sleep, or emotional blockages. In this case, meditation might work better than any biomedical approach, as that would not be treating the underlying root cause.

I already gave the example of my mom meditating on her hip and experiencing amazing, but temporary, healing and bliss. I can also give the example when my father remotely healed a paraplegic friend of his in only one night of visualization. And one time I healed my sore throat in only 15 minutes of meditation. I used to have a large PDF of case reports of people who healed every disease imaginable with loving-kindness meditation, but I can’t find that at the moment.

You will eventually die from something, and if you do die a slow death from cancer, that could actually be a supreme blessing if you understand that meditation is the key to having a better afterlife (or even escaping rebirth). Many people say they would like to die a quick death, in their sleep. I think that’s absurd, because that means they won’t even know they are dying. They might just get stuck in a dream and never wake up—hopefully not a nightmare—who knows! An intelligent person would want to have as much preparation as possible for life’s greatest transition.

Emotions are at the root of many cancers. Nancy Kline wrote in her book, Time to Think, about her own cancer journey. A Chinese medicine doctor told her that even more important than any medicine was for her to feel “happy, happy, happy!” She decided to take on a fully positive attitude and became sure she would beat cancer (despite doctors giving her 1 month to live) because she had so much left to do in life. The only medical intervention she did was to eat a natural diet. The rest was all mindset (which requires meditation, altho she didn’t explain her meditation).


“Haoma” — Ayahuasca or Loveyhuasca with cinnamon and ZHoly3O is a modern spin on an ancient cancer remedy (namely, syrian rue seeds, B. caapi, and ayahuasca). My method is outlined here. In vitro and animal studies as well as anecdotes seem to converge on something like 50% of cancers being susceptible to treatment with traditional ayahuasca or harmalas (from rue or caapi). When using the cinnamon and ZHoly3O, I would expect treatment success to go up dramatically. It also synergizes well with other treatments.

While this is still potentially less of a clear universal recommendation than inositol & medicinal mushroom megadosing (below), I put it right below meditation because it’s sort of like meditation on steroids if you do it with that intention. Even a threshold dose can drastically amplify the power of one’s meditation, akin to lucid dreaming. The cinnamon addition to it seems to bring in profound visionary experiences of psychic surgery (so far, for me and 2 friends who tried it), but low doses should be used as it can get very intense.

Iboga root bark flood dose is an incredible cure for numerous incurable diseases, and Bwiti tradition indicates it may help for cancer, but I can’t find any studies or anecdotes to support this specifically. It sounds like it’s worth a shot for all the other health benefits even if it doesn’t cure cancer. Unfortunately most iboga retreats and ibogaine clinics are scams, but read my guide to get a better idea of how to use it safely (some medical tests should be done first).


Breathwork can alkalize the blood and oxygenate it, both of which are mechanisms that fight cancer. There are countless forms of Qi Gong and Tai Chi in China, but there is one in particular which is called Cancer Qi Gong, or Guo Lin Qi Gong, popularized by a woman named Guo Lin who cured her own cancer with this simple Taoist breathwork she discovered from ancient texts. Today there are Cancer Qi Gong parks all over China where old people practice. Here is a study of 194 long-term cancer survivors who practice Guo Lin Qi Gong.

Wim Hof Breathwork is more clinically validated for autoimmune conditions, although it hasn’t been formally studied for cancer. It’s a much more intense form of breathwork than Guo Lin, but both of them rest on the same principle of super-oxygenating cancer cells (which unlike normal cells, use only glucose and aminos, avoiding oxygen as fuel). People who cured their cancer with Wim Hof breathwork usually also used other treatments. I have a more powerful “Vagal Blitz” breathwork you can try if you don’t have contraindications.

Hyperbaric Oxygen Therapy (HBOT) is another way to hyperoxygenate cancer cells which proves to be 20-40% effective at sensitizing various cancers to other treatments. It’s generally safe, and might be easier for people with advanced conditions, compared to doing breathwork, if they can pay for it.

You may have heard of the “baking soda cancer cure.” While baking soda is injected with chemotherapy to kill tumors, you can’t use baking soda to alkalize your blood, since your blood must remain at a constant pH of 7.35-7.45 to keep you alive. I know someone who tried, and they got organ failure, so they quit. There was one influencer promoting it, and he’s dead now.

Instead of drinking baking soda to alkalize the blood (which also damages the stomach’s ability to digest food), the most important thing you can do is stop over-breathing. Most people breathe too much air, which reduces the amount of CO2 in their blood -- that’s called respiratory alkalosis. Paradoxically, this causes hemoglobin to hold onto oxygen too tightly (the Bohr Effect), starving your tissues of oxygen even though your blood is full of it.

Although there’s no study proving that over-breathing directly causes cancer, it does make sense mechanistically, and we do know that over-breathing causes generally poor mental and physical health. I have more info on reduced breathing for health in my Vagal Blitz.


Inositol is a class of sugar alcohols in various foods which have powerful broad-spectrum anticancer effects, without side effects (up til 12g, then you may get some gas). There are two forms of inositol useful for cancer: IP6 alone is better than myoinositol, but when you take them together, they form IP3 (Inositol Trisphosphate), which is the key signaling molecule for Natural Killer (NK) cell activation and normalizing cell division. There are numerous case reports of people who have gone into remission using just a combination of myo-inositol and IP6. According to one naturopath on X, it does not cure any root cause, but it’s a powerful supplement to fight any type of cancer until you can find the root cause. She also recommends meshima mushroom.





Medicinal Mushrooms: Stamets MyCommunity mushroom mix (which is not even a high quality mushroom mix): cured one of my friends who had a tumor the size of a golf ball in her intestines. After a 1 month of mega-dosing this mushroom mix (2tbsp every 2 hours), her tumor was gone! Lower doses do NOT work according to someone who works for Stamets, but they aren’t allowed to publicly tell people to megadose it for cancer!


Copper+Resveratrol Mittra Protocol: This protocol is completely safe, cheap, and highly effective. Here is the guide for using the protocol. It’s based on a Jan. 2025 study showing that low dose resveratrol (5mg), combined with a copper microdose (0.5 micrograms), taken by mouth, has a near universal (out of 10 patients tested) and dramatic effect on reducing the size of brain tumors within 2 weeks! Specifically, they found:

Tumor Aggression (Ki-67): Reduced by ~33%.

Stemness (Regrowth Potential): Markers for stem cells (which help cancer grow back) were reduced by 56%.

Immune Cloaking: Checkpoints (which hide cancer from the immune system) were reduced by 41%.


Although it was only tested on brain tumors, theoretically, the researchers (Dr. Indraneel Mittra and team at Tata Memorial Centre) believe the mechanism is universal.

The Theory: They propose that “Cell-free Chromatin Particles” (cfChPs) released by dying tumor cells are a fundamental driver of inflammation and metastasis in all cancers. Therefore, neutralizing them should help in all cases. And here’s how they neutralized them:

The Trojan Horse Effect

The magic isn’t just creating oxygen radicals; it is creating them directly on the target.

The Target: The enemy is the “Cell-free Chromatin” (cfChPs)—floating DNA fragments from dying cancer cells.

The Homing Beacon (Resveratrol): Resveratrol is a DNA Intercalator. This means its molecular shape allows it to slide inside the ladder of DNA strands. It physically binds to DNA.

The Detonator (Copper): Copper ions (3$Cu^{2+}$) also bind to DNA (specifically to the phosphate backbone).

The Mechanism:

The Resveratrol and Copper find the floating cancer DNA.

They bind directly to it (docking).

Because they are docked right next to each other on the DNA strand, they react specifically there.

The oxygen radicals are released at point-blank range, slicing the DNA strand instantly.

Why other pro-oxidants fail here:

If you used a different pro-oxidant (like high-dose Vitamin C), it creates radicals floating freely in the blood. These radicals are usually neutralized by your body’s own antioxidants (like Glutathione) long before they reach the cancer DNA. The Resveratrol-Copper mix bypasses this because the reaction happens inside the DNA structure itself.


Artemesia extracts, especially liposomal or DMSO-artesunate. It’s well-tolerated, 1000x more selective than chemotherapy drugs, precisely targeting cancer cells among a wide array (over 20 types studied) of cancers. As usual studies are mixed on effectiveness but overall there does seem to be a moderate benefit for cancer remission and there are many cure anecdotes. People often stack it with IVM & Fenben. (Source: Grok)


Mebendazole/fenben + Ivermectin (IVM): both are antiparasitic drugs which also work well for cancer. Dissolving them into DMSO can vastly improve their absorption and effectiveness.

IVM: A 2025 meta-analysis by Roblina, et al shows that in vitro effectiveness for IVM against various cancers is between 60-80%. IVM effectiveness against pancreatic cancer cells in vitro nearly doubled when it was combined with L-methioninase enzyme (Morinaga et al 2025). In vivo effects in humans have shown a 50% remission rate in one study:

The HighWire
@HighWireTalk
😡They Buried it for COVID. Now They’re Doing It for Cancer

A new study co-authored by Dr. Peter McCullough and Dr. Harvey Risch of Yale analyzed 197 cancer patients treated with ivermectin and mebendazole, two decades-old, off-patent antiparasitic drugs that cost roughly $30 a

5:10 PM · May 14, 2026 · 9,02 K Views
15 Replies · 274 Reposts · 560 Likes
This chart was done by an alternative cancer doctor (Makis), but keep in mind Gemini warns that higher doses are often more difficult to handle than Dr. Makis implies.





Mebendazole & Fenbendazole (microtubule inhibitors): While fenben has been made popular by influencer Joe Tippens, mebendazole is the sister drug in the benzimidazole class that shows actual evidence of effectiveness in human clinical trials. You cannot use generic mebendazole, as only polymorph C is active, so you must use the easily-acquired brand name drugs Emverm or Vermox which are made with polymorph C. Take with fatty food to 2-3x absorption.

The Care Oncology Clinic (COC) protocol differs significantly from the massive, liver-toxic doses used in acute clinical trials (e.g., for Glioblastoma), focusing instead on a “metabolic” approach using lower, continuous doses alongside synergistic drugs.

Warnings:
Never combine Mebendazole with Metronidazole (Flagyl). This combination can trigger Stevens-Johnson Syndrome (SJS), a horrific and potentially fatal skin necrosis condition.

Liver Enzyme Elevation: Benzimidazoles stress the liver. You must monitor ALT/AST liver enzymes every 2-4 weeks initially. If enzymes spike >3x baseline, the protocol typically pauses.


mTOR inhibitors work well against many cancers and especially excel at preventing cancer. They synergize well with other treatments, especially IVM & Fenben.

Rapamycin (aka sirolimus) is validated as an effective treatment for certain cancers. It’s an immunosuppressant drug which could cause you to be more susceptible to infections, and it can also cause metabolic diseases. Rapamycin can be used more safely if a lower dose of 3-4mg is taken weekly with a glass of grapefruit juice.

Natural mTOR inhibitors, especially broccoli sprouts (which also detoxify estrogen), EGCG from matcha green tea, and hairy ground cherry (for physapubescin content), and liposomal curcumin (+black pepper), can help prevent cancer cells from developing resistance to rapamycin, and they can also be effective on their own.

Fasting, keto, carnivore diets are promoted by some as the best way to inhibit mTOR. Keto & carnivore do not appear to work well for cancer in general. However, Dr. Thomas Seyfried finds that when glutamine is intermittently blocked alongside a keto diet, effectiveness is very good in mice. With humans there are only case reports. Keep in mind you must replenish electrolytes to avoid “Keto Flu.” The main problem is how to block glutamine utilization without toxic drugs.

While intermittent fasting does not help, long-term fasting does have proven efficacy. In addition to inhibiting mTOR, it also restricts glutamine, serine, lysine, which are the primary fuels for cancer cells.



The main issue with long-term fasting is it accelerates cachexia (wasting away), which 80% of cancer patients already suffer from. Cachexia is caused by tumor factors that drive inflammation. It’s not related to your level of body fat, but rather the level of muscle loss (sarcopenia).

To combat cachexia, the best natural remedies are Ninjin’yoeito, and probiotics (like VSL#3 and SIBO Yogurt). If the patient is not too debilitated yet they should do strength training and take HMB & creatine.

Various anti-cancer diets are promoted, as well as specific foods. The top book for anti-cancer dieting, according to Gemini, is Anti-Cancer: A New Way of Life (Dr. David Servan-Schreiber), and here are Dr. Servan-Schreiber’s top suggestions from that book:





MAREMO Peptide-5 (MP-5) is an exceptionally promising, safe, preclinical agent. Its in vivo efficacy (30% complete regression in a mouse model) is highly significant, particularly because its in vitro IC50 values are high. This disparity confirms its sophisticated, non-cytotoxic, TME-modulating mechanism of action (fact-check).

MP-5 is also an excellent combination therapy. It is designed to solve the physical barrier (stroma) and the immunological barrier (T-cell exclusion) that are the primary reasons why modern immunotherapies, such as checkpoint inhibitors, fail in the majority of patients.

Methylene Blue Sonodynamic Therapy: This is the treatment protocol that I developed with Gemini using my incredible AI functional medicine research prompt. You can see the full guide here. It works not just for cancer but also for all pathogens except parasites. The guide has been designed to include some of the other protocols in this article to maximize effectiveness, although all by itself it should be highly effective, especially for cancers that are not located super deep. If it were simpler to do, I would have put it near the top, but it’s very doable in a properly-equipped clinic.

Intravenous (IV) vitamin C (up to 100g/daily) has decades of evidence from functional medicine doctors, especially Dr. Riordan. NOTE: Riordan clinic has lots of great reviews on their site, but no good reviews that I could find on google or HealNavigator, just a few bad ones. Bizarre, as Dr. Riordan is a leader in this therapy. At high doses, it is a pro-oxidant, not an anti-oxidant, and it kills cancer via generation of hydrogen peroxide and a few other oxidizing degradation products, which cancer cells can’t neutralize due to their lack of the catalase enzyme.

Although generally safe (and much safer than using just H2O2), caution is warranted for patients with G6PD, kidney failure, iron overload, or at risk of tumor hemorrhage. It can change blood sugar readings and confuse diabetics for about 8 hours, so insulin injections must be done with caution and food should be consumed prior to therapy.

Effectiveness is mixed, with an average doubling of survival time over conventional treatment, but many stories of long-term cures. Here is one study on 3 people who cured their cancer with IV Vit C (plus supporting supplements, like IVC-Max). Here’s a Riordan study on 7 people, nearly all of them cured.


DMSO is the most versatile solvent we’ve discovered, so in addition to its own anti-cancer benefits, you can combine it with certain non-bioavailable cancer fighters, like haematoxylin, fenbendazole, ivermectin, etc. It can also be used to help reduce toxicity of chlorine dioxide and help it penetrate through the skin to treat more shallow cancers. It has over 300 medical benefits, so even when it isn’t directly killing cancer, it’s likely to be helping the immune system and detoxifying the body so that cancer can be naturally eradicated. HealNavigator has an overview here.


Ebselen: this is the most amazing drug you never heard of. It mimics glutathione peroxidase. It’s an extremely safe panacea, which treats many types of cancers, including blood, breast, prostate, lung (so far only animal studies). It also functions as a safe antibiotic drug which doesn’t disrupt the gut flora, as well as an antiviral drug, antifungal, anti-inflammatory, anti-diabetic, and antioxidant. It treats cardiovascular disease, including atherosclerosis, as well as hearing loss, tinnitus, Menniere’s (which it’s nearly FDA approved for), strokes (when used within 24 hours), and functions as a lithium mimetic which is being investigated for treating alcoholism, bipolar disorder, anxiety, impulsivity, and maybe depression.

Dosing is usually 400mg twice daily, and taking more can make it less effective. It’s not water-soluble, so it should be mixed into DMSO.

The only problem is, it’s expensive and hard to acquire currently, but that should hopefully change soon, since it’s about to be FDA-approved.


Cancer weeds:

Convolvulus arvensis (“Cancer of Weeds”) has been shown in animal studies to reduce tumor size by 70%. It’s also an immune stimulant and works for HBP (MSKCC). Traditionally it’s been used mainly as a purgative and liver cleanse. It has some toxicity, so be careful as you slowly increase dosage to avoid side effects (like vomiting).

Cannabis (“Cancer Weed”) megadosing: slowly increase dosage, use as little THC as possible compared to CBD, CBG, or cannabis root oil. This is one of the top alternative cancer remedies (Moss). One version of this became famous, which is Rick Simpson Oil (RSO). That refers to cannabis extract made in an overly complicated way. You can simply cook your cannabis in water or milk for a few minutes and drink. It’s extremely cheap to buy CBD or CBG weed and megadose it.

Euphorbia peplus (“Cancer Weed”) is toxic to ingest (unless cooked in milk, as during Polish famine times), but applying the sap topically can cure skin cancers in a few months. It’s also shown to work on other types of cancer cells, so it could be mixed into DMSO for treating breast cancer or other accessible cancers. It was even FDA approved for treating pre-cancerous actinic keratosis, but ironically it was withdrawn from market after studies showed that long-term use can possibly slightly increase risk of skin cancer (or maybe it just wasn’t patentable).

For squamous and basal cell carcinoma skin cancers specifically, consider solamargine, an extract from eggplant peel used in the BEC-5 cream which is FDA approved and highly effective (Chase 2011).

Mistletoe: This is very commonly used in Europe, but although the evidence suggests it can improve fatigue in cancer patients, it’s not validated as a primary treatment for cancer.


Ayurveda and Chinese Medicine have not been shown to be effective at treating cancer by themselves, but they have been shown to drastically increase survival times (up to 3x with curcumin) in some studies when added onto allopathic treatments.

Low Dose Naltrexone (LDN): LDN blocks Opioid Growth Factor (OGF) receptors, causing increased production of OGF. This makes it most effective in cancers that express OGFr receptors (e.g., Pancreatic, Ovarian, Colon, Hepatic). LDN also blocks Toll-Like Receptor 4 (TLR4) on glial cells and macrophages. The evidence suggests LDN is a “Low Regret” intervention—unlikely to harm (unless the patient uses opioids for pain), biologically plausible to help, but not a “magic bullet” on its own.

Start Dose: 1.5 mg (to assess sleep tolerance).

Target Dose: 4.5 mg.

Timing: Traditionally taken at bedtime (to maximize the overnight endorphin spike), but if it causes insomnia (vivid dreams are common), it can be taken in the morning.

Synergy: Often paired with Alpha Lipoic Acid (ALA) per the Berkson protocol.



Rife Generators and similar tech like Spooky2. Proponents of these vibrational frequency healing devices claim they can cure nearly any disease. No studies have shown effectiveness but anecdotes do show some support (2/3 in a small sample say it worked even without any other treatment), although there’s a huge reporting bias since those who get no benefit are either dead and can’t report that, or they just moved on rather than continue to engage with the community.

Melatonin has proven benefits in cancer treatment at a dose of 20mg. Higher doses can cause indiscriminate cell death (Guranathan et al 2023) without additional benefit (Gemini research summary).


Laetrile extract from apricot kernels contain an organic cyanide molecule called Amygdalin. It was the most hotly debated medical treatment in all of modern history. Today, it is still used by alternative cancer clinics that promoted it, but it’s no longer believed to work for aggressive cancers (Dr. Contreras). It could be useful for slow-growing tumors.

It was originally discovered because the Pakistani Hunza tribe was reported to have no cancer due to consuming apricot kernels. A later study showed they did have a 3.6% incidence of cancer, and fact-checkers jumped on that as proof that apricot kernels don’t prevent cancer, but that cancer incidence is 11x less than in USA. This is a lesson for you in how fact-checks cannot be trusted. Always fact-check the fact-checkers (like I did)!


Induced hyperthermia: evidence suggests it works well for enhancing the effectiveness of primary treatments on non-metastatic tumors. There are anecdotal claims of higher temperature whole body hyperthermia working by itself but no real data to support that. (Gemini)

Chlorine Dioxide (CDS): Some people promote CDS as a cancer cure, based on the same pro-oxidative theory used by IV Vitamin C. There are zero studies done using CDS on animals or humans aside from some case reports published by proponents. No studies are done on it because of the toxicity level. CDS is 10x more toxic than H2O2 therapy and also lacks effectiveness against many pathogens that H2O2 kills.

The only reason I could see for using CDS over H2O2 (or especially over IV C) is that it has additional toxicity from degrading into the chlorite ion, making it similar to chemotherapy. My next-door neighbor was a huge CDS proponent, but he died of prostate cancer, so it definitely doesn’t work on all cancer patients. There is one interesting trash-bag vapor approach with CDS that a dishonest CDS promoter advocates, and this can’t be replicated with H2O2. Paracelsus clinic in Switzerland uses CDS only for dental procedures, along with ozone, as an antiseptic. I think it could be useful for gum infections as it penetrates well.



Conclusion
My goal with this article was to give hope based on science and spirit. If you are hoping to cure your cancer, there are a lot of effective and safe methods you can trial. If you are done trying to fight it, you now have the luxury of time for deep meditation/prayer and preparation for how you will face death and the afterlife. That’s a luxury that people who die suddenly (especially unexpectedly in their sleep) do not have. Give thanks. 🙌❤️


===== DO YOUR OWN RESEARCH =====
Do Your Own Research, Gangnam Style!
“Do Your Own Research” (DYOR) is almost a meme disclaimer at this point, but most people don’t DYOR because they don’t have time or they were not taught how to do it. Keep in mind, 99% of public school kids are taught to remember and repeat, while only “gifted” students are taught critical thinking.

Research is getting much easier in some ways now, and also harder in some ways. We can do instant fact checks, but we can also fact-check the fact checks which takes more time. Things are changing so rapidly that within some months, this post will be out of date.

What I want to stress here is that you will waste a lot more time if you don’t DYOR effectively, because you’ll be listening to people who you shouldn’t waste time listening to, and even implementing terrible strategies for your mental, physical, spiritual health that cost you a lot more than just time.

Some people think that their doctor knows better than AI, but the reality is, even as imperfect as AI is now, when El Salvador got doctors to use a locally-trained Gemini, they brought diagnostic accuracy from 50% to 93% and increased efficiency so much that wait times went down to almost nothing. And they found that the Gemini chatbot actually worked better than a google clinical AI trained solely on medical references. An Gemini actually sucks compared to GPT at this point, so that’s saying a lot.

Below, I will focus on health research, but most of what I’m saying can be generalized to other kinds. But before even mentioning health research, you should have this very basic understanding of the order of importance of what types of things to take (note that all this would come before actual pharma drugs):

The IOM Nutrient Prioritization Principle



Keeping Rigor Outside The Box
It’s especially difficult to find high quality sources of information on health topics. But health is the most important topic, especially when you’re sick. What I find is that mainstream medicine practitioners are often stuck in a box and unable to think critically about what they were taught, while alternative practitioners/promoters are often lacking rigor in their analyses, partly due to being stuck in their own dogmatic echo chambers, partly due to lack of funding for high quality controlled trials, and partly due to weighing evidence differently. Our goal here is to add rigor to outside-the-box thinking.

AI is an incredible new research tool, but it is hampered in many ways. In order to use AI effectively, first we should have some background on the topics we are researching, so we can understand how good a job the AI is doing.

Don’t Get Stuck In Your Own Box Either
I find that I often get stuck in a loop with AI without realizing it. I am either asking the wrong questions, or using the wrong approach, or something like that, but AI is programmed to be narrowly helpful, so it rarely says “Why are you asking me that? You should have asked me this….” So you have to specifically tell it to question your assumptions, your goals, your framework, and your method, if there might be a better one, before continuing down the wrong path. I saved that in the saved instructions, but it often doesn’t seem to work unless you put that directly into the query box because of how deeply ingrained this programming is to be narrowly helpful.


Sci-Bot.Ru: Ask the only AI that has Full Text Study access!
If you don’t know how to read and understand scientific studies, you won’t be able to evaluate evidence. Here’s a great concise guide to doing this (and you can input that into your AI to practice it). Keep in mind that most study findings are not reproducible. AI is often quite helpful at summarizing studies and helping you understand the flaws in them, but it does have its own biases and sometimes it hallucinates, so it’s only a starting point.

Retrieving the raw data (e.g., looking at the “Methods” section of a study PDF) is the only way to truly break the echo chamber. AI can summarize the Abstract (which often contains the spin), but deep research requires the AI to analyze the Tables (where the truth is often hidden).

Nearly all AIs do not yet have the ability to go behind most institutional paywalls to access the full study PDFs, so they can only access the full studies if they are free, and even when they are freely available for some reason the AI often doesn’t read the full text unless you upload the PDF. But now we finally have a solution:

Sci-Bot.ru: This is a very cheap paid per-use option (costing as low as 5 cents per query), which is the AI version of Sci-Hub, the pirate database containing 80% of full text studies. URLs change due to law enforcement takedowns, but if you google or wikipedia Sci-Bot you should find the latest site.

All by itself, you will often get more accurate results from Sci-Bot than you will from AI.

Using my Heterodox Research Protocol at bottom will give you a flow to make Sci-Bot integrate into your flagship AI so that SciBot does what it does best, which is sifting thru full text studies, while your flagship AI does the interpretation and deciding which studies to ask for.

Here is a good example of an integrated manual workflow. First, I asked GPT (on Extra High reasoning whether opioid withdrawals are more or less difficult in isolation or with social support. The mainstream consensus stems from the original Rat Park studies which actually did not measure this, ironically. More recent studies do measure this, but in different ways. GPT (and Claude) both got the wrong answer at first. Sci-Bot got an answer that was much closer to the truth, but it got confused between a couple similar papers, which GPT then fixed to give the correct synthesis, nuanced conclusion. Unfortunately, despite my saved instructions to GPT and Claude to ask for full texts when necessary, neither one followed those instructions, because their system prompt seems to preclude that unless you ask it directly in the conversation prompt.


Avoiding Big Brother
While the flagship AIs (mainly GPT 5.6 right now) are hard to beat for reasoning depth, sometimes you might not want to ask a question that gives too much info about you and what you do to these corporations, which then give that info directly to governments, police, etc. There are a few options around this. One obvious option is running your own local LLM, but that’s going to be quite slow and dumb, so it’s not a real option for deep research tasks.

A few private cloud LLM options to think about include using Sci-Hub.ru (mentioned in the section above) when doing scientific research, or using your favorite flagship AI on OpenRouter.com, paying per query/token rather than a monthly fee. Keep in mind, even though you have the same flagship model on OpenRouter, it doesn’t have the default system prompt shipped with Claude.ai or ChatGPT.com, so it will actually usually feel less intelligent. You can also use Brave browser and Brave search, which anonymizes your queries to its LLMs, but it doesn’t have the flagship LLMs.

If you are using the flagship apps directly, you should also instruct them to re-write your queries to avoid guardrail risks before running them, and to avoid saying anything in their output that might trip guardrails.


Stay Up To Date Easily
GPT Pulse mode allows you to stay up to date only on the news that interests you. You can customize it very well so that it only shows you the latest health science news, for example, related to your particular health condition, and even translate any new findings into actionable steps for you. Gemini and Claude also have some version of this.


Research & Translate Medium-Resource Languages
While most scientific research is in English, there is also a lot which is in other languages, especially when it comes to ethnobotanical or indigenous knowledge. But you must specifically tell the AI to check the local language resources that make sense given the context (like Hindi and Tamil for ayurveda research). One issue with that is that AI is not so good at translating from many languages, such as Tamil, which don’t have rich standardized references. But there is an optimized prompt I use that makes translations a lot better, and it helps especially if you are actually trying to learn one of these languages like I am (Wolof in Senegal).

u-dont-exist.com
16 juin
Gemini (3.5 in Extended Thinking mode) is the best AI for translation from and to low resource/obscure languages (for example, Wolof). You can ask it how well it can teach you the language. It may overestimate its ability tho, but you can make it way better by saving this instruction:

# SYSTEM_INSTRUCTION: BIDIRECTIONAL_LOW_RESOURCE_PRECISION

## Objective

Prevent semantic flattening, category conflation, and approximation errors when translating bidirectionally between low-resource languages (LRL)…


Summarize (inc. YT vids), Critique & Argue, with AI
Google Gemini Pro is now usually quite good at giving detailed summaries of YouTube videos with time stamps (just paste the URL of the vid and ask for detailed summary with timestamps), and you can also have it fact check them (or “critique” them for much more in-depth fault-finding). Keep in mind that the critique will only be as good as whatever mainstream info Gemini is trained with (or your saved instructions), but it’s good to first understand that aspect of things before going deeper. You can also get summaries directly in YouTube with the built-in Gemini they have but it doesn’t have access to outside search for fact-checks or comparisons.

If you already have some knowledge yourself, you can use that knowledge to help Gemini help you critique and fact-check in a better way. You can literally become a super-researcher very quickly this way, and destroy academic “experts” and even Gemini itself sometimes.

Some of my example debates:

Here’s an excellent example of a recent study that I fed to Gemini 3 about fluoride supposedly boosting IQ scores in children. Stock Gemini would have agreed with the study. With my heterodox research instructions, it completely destroyed the study.

Here’s an example where I fact-checked a popular Substack statistician who said RFK Jr. was lying about aluminum causing autism. Aluminum is a known, super potent neurotoxin and this “Scam Doctor” as he calls himself is aptly named! And he doesn’t even understand that statistical significance is one of the top “how to lie with statistics” scams? I challenged him to rebut Gemini’s critique and he failed, so I reported him to Substack moderators. If more people can become research super-heroes, we can really get these mis-info spreaders removed from power.

Here’s an example where I fact-checked a video by Felix Harder about antioxidant vitamins being unhealthy—as you can see, Gemini 2.5 originally 100% agreed with Felix, but after some explanations from me, it came to completely agree with me instead. I’ve also used this approach when commenting on other health videos, for example from T. C. Hale.

Here’s an example of a post that I initially didn’t even think to fact-check, because it agreed with my anti-vax bias (I admit!), but sometimes, I think to myself, “if this information is completely correct, then how would a fact-checker attack it?” And then when I did fact-check it, I was surprised at how well Gemini 2.5 was able to bring nuance and balance to the debate (since it is programmed to be biased towards vaccines). Everyone pretty much hates me now, whether they are pro-vax or anti-vax!

Here’s an example of a debate that centers on the Covid vaccine Pfizer phase 3 trial data, which anti-vax folks often like to point to as meaningful. I was able to uncover that most people are looking at the wrong data in that trial to support their argument against the vaccine, and I was eventually able to convince Gemini 2.5 that the Pfizer study shows the vaccine is not safe based on the post-hoc cardiac deaths signal.


Iterative Questioning Is Key For Full Understanding
Most people ask a question to AI and then they accept the answer as final. It’s not final. That’s simply the best the AI could do within the resource allotment it has for a response. You might ask it what the dangers are of taking a certain medication. It might list 3 dangers. But in fact the danger list could be 1000s of lines long, as with the Covid vaccines.

So, after AI gives you the answer, you must continuously follow up with questions, often times the same question: “Any other things I should know about this?” Sometimes, it will say, “No, that’s everything you need to know.” Sometimes, it will keep going until it veers off on tangents, at which point you can assume it is done giving useful information.

This is how I developed my Heterodox Research Protocol prompt, by asking, over and over again for many hours, “anything we missed?” And sometimes of course, I would find things that we missed myself. Unfortunately, I wasted a lot of time with Gemini before I realized how much it was hallucinating its actual capacities. GPT Pro worked much better.

Ask AI to Ask You First
One instruction that saves a lot of wasted effort is including this in your prompt: “If you have any questions, ask me before answering the prompt.” I tried to put that into the saved instructions, but it rarely follows that unless it’s directly in the prompt. This instruction is crucial, because AI is often confused either by what you wanted, or by what it found, but it isn’t able to tell you that it is confused and ask for help, unless you specifically tell it to do that, and instead, it tends to manufacture confidence in answers it shouldn’t.



Iterate Between Deep Research Mode & High Thinking
Deep Research mode does not have the deepest reasoning capacity; it’s function is more about searching and collating. The best approach is to iterate between them: start with Pro/Thinking for framing the question, then use Deep Research only after you know exactly what you want it to gather, then feed that back into Pro/Highest Thinking mode for analysis. Example prompt pattern after initial thinking task:

“Use Deep Research to find the strongest evidence for and against X. Prioritize full-text peer-reviewed studies, official guidance, and primary sources. Separate mainstream consensus, mechanism, speculation, and anecdotes. Flag conflicts of interest and weak evidence. Do not make a protocol yet.”


Pitting LLMs Against Each Other Produces Better Research
The best method is to not rely on one LLM (large language model), but pit the best of them against each other, a continuous debate thread. There are some services that are beginning to offer an automated comparison, like use.ai. Currently, Claude Fable 5 (pro) and GPT 5.5 Pro are good to pit against each other. Gemini is lagging behind now with 3.5, hallucinating too much and just being lazy and overconfident. Can be better for learning obscure languages though, and handling various media, including translating WhatsApp voice notes.


Build your own searchable Health Library
Each flagship AI has its own library feature. Gemini calls its library Gems and GPT calls it Custom GPTs and Claude calls it Projects. Gems lean into Google Workspace integration and free access; Custom GPTs lead on public distribution and live API "Actions"; Claude Projects lead on context handling and writing quality but have no public marketplace.

You can download books from Anna’s Archive (PDF format is supported by Gemini. If you get ePub you need to convert it).

Using Gemini as an example, there are 3 ways you can build your library:

Gemini Deep Research. This is the first approach (RAG search) mentioned, good to begin with, so you can do deep research reports with a library of books as well as fact-checking them via web-based research.

When you click on Tools in your initial Gemini chat screen, then select Deep Research, it will give you a new button called Sources, which allows you to include your Google Drive as one of the sources that it searches. This means you can upload nearly unlimited number of books/files to your drive and have Gemini look through all of it when you make a query. This is convenient as you don’t need to upload individual files, but it means you would need to curate your Google Drive so that it is only for one purpose. Otherwise you could upload up to 10 specific files from your Google Drive, but keep in mind you can’t continue the conversation too long as the context window will run out and hallucinations will start.

Google NotebookLM: Use NotebookLM if you:

Don’t need Gemini’s deep reasoning, fact-checking abilities nor web search abilities

Just want to be able to quickly search through up to 50 books/files with minimum chance of hallucinations. NotebookLM will also let you click the source page numbers to directly see the original source.

Want to be able to actually read the books themselves.

Like to have mind maps, quizes, audio podcast, video summaries, reports based on the library.

Note that you should try not to completely fill it up with 50 books as the more books it has the worse it is at fully searching them.

Gemini Gems: Use the Gem if you want a more permanent library that you can query any time without worrying about overflowing the context window. Keep in mind that your regular custom instructions are *not* saved into the gem unless you specifically paste them in there, but you would want to modify them a bit because by default the gem doesn’t do any web searches unless you ask it to. Gemini allows you to upload up to 10 files per gem. Each file can be up to 100MB large.





My Master Health Libraries
Note: you must have Google AI Pro ($19/month) to use these, and the Ultra plan works even better.

Here is my main general reusable holistic Health Library Gem on alternative medicine.

Here is my health library Deep Research thread you can use to search those same books in a deeper way. In this thread I asked what are the top 5 things to prioritize for improving health, and some of the advice was actually stuff I didn’t know. It’s a highly useful report! Unfortunately it’s read-only because Gemini isn’t working properly anymore for sharing these threads.

Here is my health NotebookLM (with more books than I could fit in the Gem, but not including maternity books). You can directly read the books in here or perform rapid searches (without much deep thinking) with excellent grounding in the source material.

This Gem & Deep Research thread include the following books:

The Encyclopedia of Natural Medicine, Third Edition, by Michael T. Murray, N.D., & Joseph E. Pizzorno, N.D.

The Toxic Tooth - How a root canal could be making you sick by Robert Kulacz, DDS & Thomas E. Levy, MD, JD

Healing the Night: The Science and Spirit of Sleeping by Rubin Naiman

Rapid Virus Recovery: No need to live in fear! by Thomas E. Levy, MD, JD

The Digestive Health Solution by Ben Brown, ND (Also included in my more comprehensive Gut Health Library Gem).

Peptide Self-regulation of Living Systems (Facts and Hypotheses) by L. K. Shataeva, V. Kh. Khavinson, I. Yu. Ryadnova

The DMSO Handbook: A New Paradigm in Healthcare by Hartmut Fischer

Turtles All The Way Down: Vaccine Science and Myth by Zoey O’Toole and Mary Holland, J.D.

Anatomy of an Epidemic: Magic Bullets, Psychiatric Drugs, and the Astonishing Rise of Mental Illness in America by Robert Whitaker

Drug Muggers: Which Medications Are Robbing Your Body of Essential Nutrients—and Natural Ways to Restore Them by Suzy Cohen, RPh

Here is my Pre, Peri, Post-natal Gem of books which you can query if you want to get pregnant, are pregnant, or nursing.

Here’s the NotebookLM version which gives you the actual books, is faster to search, and sticks to the sources better but with less reasoning.

This Gem & NotebookLM include the following books:

Breastfeeding Made Simple: Seven Natural Laws for Nursing, by Nancy Mohrbacher and Kathleen Kendall-Tackett

Real Food for Pregnancy: The science and wisdom of optimal prenatal nutrition, by Lily Nichols

Ina May’s Guide to Breastfeeding, by Ina May Gaskin

Dr. Jack Newman’s Guide to Breastfeeding, by Dr. Jack Newman and Teresa Pitman

Real Food for Fertility: Prepare your body for pregnancy with preconception nutrition and fertility awareness, by Lily Nichols and Lisa Hendrickson-Jack

Ina May’s Guide to Childbirth, by Ina May Gaskin

Gentle Birth, Gentle Mothering: A Doctor’s Guide to Natural Childbirth and Gentle Early Parenting Choices, by Sarah J. Buckley, MD

Breastfeeding answers made simple: A Guide for Helping Mothers, by Nancy Mohrbacher

Supporting Sucking Skills in Breastfeeding Infants, by Catherine Watson Genna

Here is my Gut Health Gem. This one is special because I found 9 very good books on gut health, but they each have pros and cons, so this gem has special instructions in order to integrate these books in the most valid way. I will be explaining more about the main takeaways from this gem in my gut health post.



My AI Heterodox (Health) Research Prompt (v.20.3)
This prompt incorporates many research best practices and attempts to avoid mainstream consensus bias without falling into woo woo mode. It is especially tailored for heteredox health research, but it could be used for other kinds of research as well. It now has guided manual integration with SciBot for full texts of studies, if desired.

NOTE: You still have to engineer each query a bit so that your AI gets pushed harder not to use default programming. So for example, if I ask “what are the top cancer remedies doctors don’t know about?” then the answer may appear to have absolutely nothing to do with my saved instructions. Instead, I may need to ask: “check anecdotes to see what alternative cancer remedies work best, and see what orthomolecular.org research and similar types of alternative research show.” Claude can be more strict with guardrails, so I now recommend using this on GPT 5.5 (Pro especially).

Here are the full instructions to paste into the query box.

Universal Instructions to Improve Claude & GPT
I also have some more universal saved instructions which I use. These help a lot with style and tone, bypassing guardrails, epistemics, analyzing studies, reducing hallucinations, reasoning, health triage, over-correcting, over-confidence, sycophancy, dispute mediation, avoid getting banned due to guardrail violations, and writing articles, comments etc, in your own voice, and learning from errors.

For writing articles in your own voice, scroll all the way down after universal instructions for the prompt you need to use to set up this feature.

Obviously, AI can’t include anything from your own actual mind/ideas/creativity in the articles, so your job becomes co-writing with AI by feeding it all your ideas, while it checks them and gives feedback. I find Claude to work best for article writing. GPT agrees.

Claude and AI in general still give terrible advice many times but still worthwhile to spur thinking. It makes sense that AI therapy would be less reliable than AI for pure research since psychology isn’t exactly a science and most human therapists also suck.

Keep in mind that there are two ways to save instructions: implicitly, when you ask it to save them, and explicitly, when you paste them into your Saved Instructions field in preferences. Explicit instructions are adhered to much better, but they have a length limit. GPT doesn’t have a large saved instructions field unfortunately, but, here is what I have in mine:


===== DMSO ARTICLE =====
Introduction

DMSO is an amazing substance with over 300 medical uses, especially arthritis, stroke, cancer, brain damage, mental illness, and sports/auto injuries. It must be in your first aid kit and you will most likely be using it on a regular basis. It’s saved me from countless doctors and hospitals. My father used it for decades before me also, for a wide range of problems.

This miraculous panacea is at the very top of the charts on Substack medical blogs, with AMD’s articles on it getting thousands of comments. I posted a critique of one of AMD’s articles along with general critiques of AMD here. I will give a list of AMD DMSO articles at the end, as well as all the main DMSO books in PDF form, and all of this combined in a Gemini deep research convo. However, I wish to put my 2 cents in first, as there are certain uses that are less known, or should be especially highlighted:

Benefits:
Turns Bad Trips Good Instantly and Reverses Drug Overdose Brain Damage.

DMSO is a super powerful neuroprotective agent (rivaled only by fullerenes in Zholy3O), and it works for nearly any kind of brain damage you can imagine. I and many people I know have discovered that when you’re having a bad trip, DMSO can almost always turn it into a good trip, instantly. If you overdose on whatever drugs and you feel brain damaged (like body functions going wild), DMSO also fixes this almost instantly (15mL in some juice may be enough, if not you can take more afterward). You can even just touch it with clean skin, which won’t give as much of a dose, but is super useful if you’re trying to help someone who doesn’t want to take any medicine. The more you take, the better it works. One time I took 15mL after 5 milligrams of LSD (a “thumbprint dose”) and I went from feeling really messed up to feeling better than ever, in a second. I would have added DMSO to my ZHoly3O formula, except that it just tastes so bad that probably nobody would use it.


Cures Mental Illnesses: There’s one main study done on this topic from 1967. DMSO worked better for psychiatric patients than all other psych meds at that time (slashing their psych ward stays in half), and it still does, although there’s no money for studying it more. It boosts the mood, calms, clears, and focuses the mind.

u-dont-exist.com
18 déc.
Cleaning brain and getting high on DMSO again yay!


5
2
Nebulizing DMSO is amazing for lung inflammation and brain health. I wrote more about this here. There are no studies I can find on this topic (AMD has info on it but recommends ridiculously low strength of DMSO), but I know from personal experience nebulizing it myself and getting hundreds of friends to do so, that it’s safe and highly beneficial for non-smokers (for smokers it can bring the toxins from your lungs into your blood too quickly if you use a high concentration of DMSO, so instead you can try nebulizing Holy Water, as mentioned in ZHoly3O). I think 1 person said they didn’t react well. DMSO is also the only nontoxic solvent for vape carts (aside from terpenes, which work ok for cannabis vapes). When you nebulize it, it removes the toxins from your brain. If you keep nebulizing it for a while, once all the toxins are removed, you start getting a beautiful clear-headed blissful high which you can’t get with anything else except maybe Xenon gas.

Vaping DMSO is safe below 150C, although it smells of garlic. It is the only solvent, aside from certain terpenes, which is safe to vape. If you are making vape carts for DMT, etc, you should be using DMSO instead of neurotoxic PEG/PG (research). Unfortunately, many vape carts are not designed to work well with DMSO, so they can leak. Greenlightvapes G9 carts worked perfectly, but they are no longer sold. These DVP carts might be the next best.

Topical application for burns, scars, injuries, infections:
Make sure to clean the skin first! Nothing else on Earth seems to have the power that DMSO has to heal burns, injuries, and subdermal infections (even systemic antibiotic drugs do not work nearly as well for those). If you smash you finger in a door, soaking it in DMSO will work a lot better than icing it. One friend had absolutely no swelling after soaking his smashed thumb in DMSO for a while, and it was almost all healed the next day. A friend of mine got the most severe burn of her life recently from holding a 500F skillet—no sign of burn the next morning after overnight aloe vera DMSO application. This actually is not unique info, but the next part is, and it’s connected to this:

Concentration of DMSO & duration of application matters a lot.
Some so-called doctors, like AMD, give ridiculously low concentrations and doses of DMSO which will not do anything at all. You can tell if the DMSO is really penetrating your skin because you taste it in your mouth immediately and you feel it in your brain. It gives a clear, relaxed alert feeling. If you don’t feel the DMSO in your mouth and brain then it may be too dilute. Note that it dilutes itself if you leave it out without the cap on.
I found that I needed close to 100% concentration of DMSO in order to treat a serious foot infection (which Drs tried but failed to treat). I had to keep the foot wrapped in DMSO (with plastic wrap) for days in order for it to fully remove the infection. Pure DMSO causes skin crenation (like you get from soaking fingers in water, but worse), which looks bad but goes away in a week without treatment.

The upper body has more sensitive skin than the lower body, so you may need to dilute the DMSO a bit more for upper body. DMSO when undiluted can wrinkle the skin, which returns to normal in a week. If it causes itching that just means you should rinse it off fairly soon, but sometimes you do need to use a concentration strong enough to itch for a bit so it really does the job.

Can DMSO bring bacteria into the skin? DMSO can bring certain small molecules into the skin, but despite what AMD thinks, it won’t bring bacteria in unless the skin is broken. More importantly, at a concentration of about 80%, no bacteria can thrive in DMSO.

Clean your skin first: What you need to worry about with DMSO on the skin is mainly that it can bring in chemicals, like beauty products, etc.

Gut: As reported on AMD’s gut article which I critiqued, DMSO demonstrates some effectiveness in healing ulcers. DMSO enemas should be diluted enough that they won’t bring toxins from the colon into the blood. I would probably use 10% DMSO but it depends on the integrity of your colon and vasculature. If you feel weaker when using the enema then use less DMSO. It might help some gut issues, but not most, contrary to what AMD implies, as I explained here. There are a number of other options that are more likely to help the gut, which I detail here.

Eyes: Research suggests dilute DMSO may offer relief for eye conditions like macular degeneration, cataracts, and floaters, based on anecdotal reports of improved vision and reduced symptoms. Urine is also extremely helpful for the eyes. I would combine 10% DMSO with fresh urine.

Dental problems: DMSO penetrates deeply to disinfect teeth and gums. combine with borax and glutamine for gum and enamel regeneration.

Circulatory problems: I once got angina that lasted for days after consuming too much erythritol (only after consuming it did the study come out showing it causes heart problems). I put 15mL DMSO into some juice and drank it, and the angina pain went away in a minute and never returned.



Precautions

Side effects:
Astringent: 100% DMSO concentration will usually irritate skin on the top half of the body. If it causes itching, mix it with water or aloe vera if you can get the real aloe juice without chemicals. If you leave 100% DMSO on skin it can crenate it and then it takes a week to look plump again. If you put DMSO into a dry mouth it can burn the tissues. Make sure your mouth is moist.

Nausea: if drinking DMSO, dilute it in water/juice/milk and sip gradually rather than drinking a lot all at once. Sensitivity differs.

Reduced sleep: DMSO reduces the amount of time that I sleep if I take too much, too late, or over too many days consecutively. It builds up past a certain dose threshold. That threshold seems different for different people. This is proven in rats, but some people find it helps them with sleep, but that’s because it is reducing whatever symptom they had that prevented them from sleeping.

Body odor: Past a certain threshold dose, you may smell like sulfur. I find if I put it into milk, I don’t smell.


Interactions:
DMSO can interact with other drugs in some cases:

don’t put it on unclean skin; it brings chems in

don’t nebulize too much DMSO if you’re a smoker and your lungs are full of tar, it brings all that into your blood (you’ll start feeling weak as a first symptom)

don’t take it with drugs that shouldn’t absorb quickly, like corticosteroids, NSAIDs, harmalas

don’t take it with cholinergic drugs, since it’s also cholinergic, although cannot find any anecdotes of this being a real issue. Make sure to supplement extra choline since it depletes that.

don’t take with blood thinner meds, since DMSO is also a blood thinner.


Contraindications:
DMSO could reduce seizure threshold

DMSO might make a cluster headache worse, even tho alleviates tension headaches when rubbed on head (especially with magnesium chloride).

DMSO may cause histamine release in some people. Caution advised with MCAS.

DMSO References from AMD
Up until this ultimate reference post, the best I could point people to were the articles done by AMD. AMD is a team of anonymous people pretending to be a midwestern doctor. They do collect a lot of good info, but also some wrong info, so you have to be a bit careful with reading their stuff, but I still link to the articles because it’s a good starting place for research. The comments also contain many useful anecdotes (AMD pulled many of them from X), and from what I can tell they come from real people, so they are even more valuable, but less organized, than AMD’s info.

AMD’s Articles Include:
•Strokes, traumatic brain injuries, spinal cord injuries, developmental delay, Down Syndrome and many circulatory disorders.
•All types of pain, arthritis and acute or chronic tissue injuries (e.g., burns, scars and sprains).
•Autoimmune and connective tissue disorders.
•Many aspects of cancer (e.g., eliminating cancers and reducing the toxicity of conventional treatments) and how when mixed with a common dye, becomes a remarkably safe and effective cancer treatments.
•Eye, ear, sinus, and dental conditions (e.g., tinnitus and blindness).
•Internal organ disorders (e.g., pancreatitis and cirrhosis).
•A wide range of skin conditions.
•Acute and chronic infections including shingles and herpes.
•Respiratory issues (e.g., asthma, COPD, pulmonary fibrosis, cystic fibrosis).
•How DMSO can be combined with a wide range of pharmaceutical drugs, significantly increase their safety and ability to treat challenging conditions.
•How DMSO can be combined with a variety of natural substances to create homemade remedies for a myriad of difficult diseases.
Plus a history of the FDA’s unconscionable war against DMSO, the safety of DMSO, and over a thousand of reader testimonials on the remarkable benefits they’ve experienced from using DMSO.


My Ultimate Reference Collection

I have collected all of the main books on DMSO and fed them into Google Gemini Pro so that you can download the books and read them yourself if you have time, or you can ask Gemini some questions based on the synthesis of all that knowledge (including “tell me page numbers in the books to learn more about XYZ”). Note, you do need to already have a Gemini Pro subscription in order to ask questions, but even without a pro subscription you can see the summary of what it learned from all those books. This resource is only for paid subscribers:

Here are all the main books on DMSO up til 2025 in Google’s NotebookLM.


Here is the Gemini Pro link for a deeper dive into what’s known about using DMSO as of 2025. In addition to the books, I uploaded all of AMD’s articles to Gemini, but I made sure it marked any info it got from those as “AMD Info” so you know it’s not from an actual DMSO book by a real author.


===== AUTISM ARTICLE =====
As you probably know, Autism Spectrum Disorder (aka ASD) rates seem to double every time they check them again. The standard medical explanation is that this is not real and it’s just because the test methods have changed, but a little bit of deep research shows that anxiety rates have skyrocketed over the past decades, to the point where the average child in the 1980s had levels of anxiety higher than pediatric psychiatry patients a few decades prior. Even if we forget the modern elusive term “autism,” rate of childhood mental, behavioral, and emotional disorders has climbed about 5x since 1950s.





Autism Causes & Treatments
Autism has various causes, which is why there are many treatments that can help. The RFK Jr. HHS under Trump seems to think Tylenol is a major cause, but that doesn’t seem to pan out. Some of the major ones that have better research backing:

Micronutrient deficiencies (proximal, not root cause, but easiest to treat):

Vitamins & Minerals: Orthomolecular Drs have found, over decades of study, that the following to work well for many autistic kids (Gemini report, Saul 2017):

Vitamin B-9: Folate deficiency is caused by Folate Receptor Autoantibodies (as proximal but not ultimate cause). Leucovorin is the generic name in the pharmacy for calcium folinate, which is able to pass into the brain despite folate receptor damage. Megadoses required for children (2mg/kg), with incredible 70% success rate. Can be expensive unless you have an Rx to get it in pharmacy. Normal doses of folate work during pregnancy to reduce autism risk by 60-70% (Vanderheyden 2018).

The other side of the folate equation is the cofactors, which may be able to fix autism even without folinic acid supplementation, although they would also work together. A new 2025 study (Huang, et al) found that in all 3 models of mouse autism, the universal cure was a combination of low dose amino acids and zinc: 500mg-1g of BCAAs (2:1:1 leucine:isoleucine:valine), L-serine (titrate up from 200mg), and zinc in these forms:

Zinc carnosine should be used to heal the gut first. After gut is better, switch to zinc bisglycinate for maximum brain absorption, 15mg elemental zinc once or twice daily with meals, add 1-2mg copper if taking 30mg zinc daily long-term).




Vitamin B-1 (thiamine) in fat-soluble forms (e.g., benfotiamine, TTFD) have parent stories of developmental leaps, like better school performance, and one study showing 8 out of 10 autistic kids benefitted quite a lot from TTFD form. It helped most for the most severely autistic kids. The study authors indicate that TTFD was able to remove the neurotoxic metal arsenic (and some others) from the bodies.

Vitamin B-2: 50mg daily.

Vitamin B3: Niacin or niacinamide — 1 to 2 gm. daily, depending upon body weight (put in water and sip thru the day slowly to gauge tolerance, build dose up slowly). NAD+ subdermal injections or NMN oral might work better according to anecdotes.

Vitamin B-5 — 400 to 600 mg

Vitamin B-6 (P5P form) 200 to 400 mg. This helps detox oxalates.

Vitamin B-12: Methylated B-12 is highlighted as a top remedy on EarthClinic. Some people however should take the hydroxycobalamin form if they are sensitive to methylated vitamins (causing overstimulation).

Vitamin C: 1 to 5 grams in water bottle, sipped slowly thru the day.

Sunshine for vitamin D, melatonin, nitric oxide

Magnesium, potassium, iron, selenium (without which glutathione can’t neutralize peroxide), calcium, iodine, zinc carnosine, molybdenum are often deficient, and they compete with toxic metals. See this Perplexity Deep Research on mineral imbalances in autistic children.

Mineral analysis is difficult to do properly, because the levels inside the organ tissues are what matter, more than levels in blood, urine, hair, etc. However, one thing that hair tissue metals analysis can detect is impaired metal transport.

OligoScan is an alternative that some holistic practitioners have validated on their own clinically, but it’s difficult to trust since it has never been validated simply against ICP-MS biopsy. Even on the OligoScan website itself, there is a caveat that results are not always accurate.

Supplementing the diet with kelp and other green/red seaweeds (most of which, including delicious Nori/Laver seaweed, contain true vitamin B-12 in good quantity) is a cheap way to get all the minerals from the sea that are depleted from the soils. A more scientific mineral blend is Spike.

NAC (N-acetylcysteine) (especially combined with glycine + selenium) has shown promise in trials for boosting glutathione and reducing irritability, with some parents noting better social engagement (average 1.6 standard deviation improvement in behavior scores in this study). Glutathione supplements are anecdotally linked to behavioral improvements, especially in kids with oxidative stress markers. 10% of people aren’t able to convert NAC to glutathione, so you might want to try just glutathione itself. Glutathione requires selenium to neutralize peroxide.

Viral origin and vaccine viral re-activation (also discussed here). This can be treated with dilute, food-grade H2O2, IV vitamin C (safer but more costly), sunshine, and various other remedies from orthomolecular.org. While antiviral and antibiotic drugs do show good efficacy in about 40% of autistic children, their long-term side effects may negate the acute benefits.

Toxins, leading to leaky gut: Mold (including peanut aflatoxin), arsenic, antimony, lead, cadmium, aluminum, mercury, oxalates and other toxins (especially from vaccines but could be other sources) and parasites.

Partly because of this, food sensitivities are common for autistic folks and can make the condition worse if ignored. A basic healthy diet (high in fruits, veggies, protein, low in industrial junk) scored the highest for effectiveness (Matthews & Adams 2023), but failing that, you can try an elimination diet to be more scientific. See my general detox tips and Vax detox tips.

Endocrine disruptors, especially chlorpyrifos, and dibutyl phthalate exposure in pregnant women and young children, leading to 2-40x increases in behavioral problems in children (Lien et al, 2024). Broccoli sprouts can pull phthalates out of the cells, and also aids in general phase II liver detoxification of many chemicals. Once in the plasma, activated charcoal binds and detoxes many chemicals, and specifically detoxes phthalates at 85% efficiency (Bhatnagar 2016), while probiotics (like S. boulardi, L. rhamnosus, L. plantarum) were able to eliminate phthalate toxicity in rats (Baralić et al 2020). My ZHoly3O packets can help.

ZeoCharge Zeolite, also in the ZHoly3O formula, is one of the few safe ways of detoxing metals. Many people have reported metal detox to work for autism, but most metal chelation therapies are extremely dangerous, which is why doctors usually do not advise them. Most zeolite is worthless in my experience and some even dangerous, but ZeoCharge zeolite is the only one that’s cleaned and remineralized, and it really works.
A much cheaper option is diatomaceous earth, which seems to work for some folks on EarthClinic, although the evidence is not strong for this compared to ZeoCharge zeolite.

Pangamic acid (“vitamin B-15”) is a very interesting, well-tolerated treatment which worked on 12 out of 15 kids with learning and speech impairments in this study. It did NOT work on 6 hyper-excitable kids. The theorized mechanism of action was chelation, specifically of arsenic.

Oxalates in foods, especially high in certain foods like spinach, rhubarb, cacao, beans, can cause a host of symptoms. Deficiency in oxalate-processing bacteria, or vitamin B-6 (P5P form) deficiency can reduce oxalate processing capacity.

Gestational diabetes in mothers doubles risk of autism in babies (Stern 2011). Paleo diet can help both mother and child.

Doppler ultrasound is common in OBGYN clinics, but it’s associated with short, medium, and long-term memory impairment, which causes learning disability (Abramowizc, 2013). Even the Association for Medical Ultrasound warns not to use ultrasound unless necessary, because the risks are not well understood, especially since no studies have been done since 1992, which is also the year in which ultrasound power was increased dramatically.

Liver congestion, low stomach acid, dysbiosis, etc.

Consider liver flush approaches, including the oil method to pull stones out, as well as more gentle cleanses with beet tops juice, celery juice, red cabbage juice, betaine HCl with protein meals, GAPS diet.

T. C. Hale has lots of videos on fixing gut issues, and most of his advice is pretty good, but some is debatable like the anabolic/catabolic theory.



Additional remedies helpful for autism:
Nrf2 activators: Broccoli sprouts, luteolin, turmeric, and pterostilbene are potent activators of the Nrf2 pathway (master regulator of antioxidant defense) which protects the CtBP2 pathway (regulates metabolism and aging), and they also improve the gut microbiome.

Broccoli sprouts (as a source of sulforaphane+myrosinase) were studied in 17 autistic children: 11 of them had incredible benefits. None benefitted in the control group of 11. Three RCTs were done since that case series study (not on broccoli sprouts in these RCTs, but rather pure sulforaphane): the 2024 and the 2025 study found mild to moderate benefit, while the 2023 study found no benefit (summary). But I was highly convinced by the first case series (parents in that one were saying “everyone needs to know about broccoli sprouts!”). Broccoli sprouts are also the main food that aids our cells in pushing out microplastics (Hong et al, 2023).

Luteolin (celery leaf juice is the best source): Luteolin is thought to help by calming down the brain’s overactive immune cells (mast cells and microglia). A 2011 case series on 37 ASD children found that GI and allergysymptoms improved in about 75% of children, eye contact and attention in 50%, social interactionin 25% and resumption of speech in about 10%.

Turmeric contains curcuminoids as well as a possibly even more beneficial compound called ar-turmerone. When you grind turmeric and cook in oil (traditionally in ghee), and add some black pepper, bioavailability can go up 20x or more. It works well for autistic rats. No human studies done yet.

Pterostilbene is an antioxidant found in blueberries (but you’d need to eat up to 500kg of blueberries to get one 180mg dose of pterostilbene) which has the Nrf2 activation ability of resveratrol (from grapes), except that it’s highly bio-available, unlike resveratrol. Interestingly, if not paired with grape extract, pterostilbene at high functional doses like 180mg can raise LDL cholesterol too much. The benefits of pterostilbene are more theoretical than confirmed, but it’s worth trying.

High CBD, Low THC cannabis oil helps most autistic kids to calm down and function better (Schleider et al 2019). Cannabis root oil is another option which can help. A double blind study on 150 ASD children from 2021 found that 49% of ASD children had greatly reduced aggressive behaviors when using CBD isolate.

DMSO: although there aren’t any studies showing this as a remedy for autism that I know of, and anecdotes are strangely sparse, it’s generally non-toxic and useful for many different brain issues, plus it also detoxes some metals and all kinds of other toxins. See my DMSO page.

Lithium is beneficial, at 1-20mg usually. A 2019 study on 20 ASD patients found that 14 of patients had reduced maladaptive behaviors, and of those, 10 had great reductions. Not much research done otherwise, except anecdotes, and a rat study.

Hyperbaric Oxygen Therapy (HbOT): studies show modest improvement, but some anecdotes stand out.

Fasoracetam (20mg), a nootropic that repairs GABA-B receptors, helps anxiety, mood, socializing, executive function (Grok 4 Expert Deep Research).

Here are the top reported cures from parents who “tried everything.” Note the risks of metal detox in the table: it’s talking about non-ZeoCharge zeolite detoxes.


Psychological/behavioral/therapeutic interventions
These are mainstream treatments which do not address the root cause but can still be beneficial.

One treatment is a bit controversial: “Forced” cuddling, deep massage, and tight squeeze hugging — autistic kids often really need affection and some kind of squeezing feeling to reconnect with their body. But they don’t want it, as it makes them feel weird at first. They need to be shown that it helps them calm down and feel better. Don’t do it in an abusive way but, heed the warning of Temple Grandin, whose mom stopped touching her at 3 months of age because she would fuss when touched…


Important Notes:
Autism treatments are usually more effective for younger children, since the brain damage is harder to reverse after it has solidified neuronal pathways. However, there have been cases of rapid reversal of autism symptoms even in older children (for example with suramin, which helps temporarily by dampening the Cell Danger Response).
