Hello, my lovey bunnies. Ready for a Bible story that you never heard? So, now, I've been thinking about the Bible in a different way. Now, think about this. Okay, so I recently discovered that loving your inner child is the only way to heal from trauma, actually. Now, people might say, well, they healed in different ways, but actually,
If they didn't love their inner child, if they're not loving their inner child currently all the time, then they're not healing and they didn't heal. And it's an illusion. Your inner child is the vulnerable, creative, loving, magical, curious little lovey bunny inside of you and you can touch your belly button ah
touch your belly button feel that just massage your little belly button that's where you were born right there so that's that's a great way to start connecting with your inner child Say, I love you, little Mr. Nobody. I love you. No, your actual name.
And like ideally like the name that your mom called you when you were a baby. Jolie for me. I love you, little Jolie. How are you doing, little Jolie? How are you feeling? Like that. Now, the key here is to do this kind of stuff like all day long,
like as if you actually have a child because you do, but it's inside of you and you're not the child. That's the other key. So the Bible explains this So Jesus is the child of the Father, God, who is perfect. And Jesus says, you should be perfect just as God in heaven, our Father in heaven, is perfect.
He's telling us to be perfect like our Father in heaven is perfect. heaven. So heaven is up, right? And where is the inner child? Belly button. Okay. And Jesus is the child of the perfect father, God. And Jesus is also God, but also not God. Right? Same with the inner child.
The inner child is you in a sense, but it's not you. See? It's this, because you are the Father God in heaven. You are the one that is perfect for your inner child. See? So a lot of people get stuck with this. They're like, I'm totally in touch with my inner child.
No, like, oh, I talked to this guy on the street. You know, this is a funny story. Did I finish my Bible part? Let me think. Was there anything else in the Bible? I think that's mainly it. But yeah, and... You know, what Christians get wrong is they're thinking that love is coming from God, right?
Okay, that's fine. But... So, you know, they're getting this love, but they're not... Who are they? Who are they then? Who are they? So they are now identifying as their inner child. And this is the problem. People identify with their inner child.
And then if you are the inner child, that means you're going to act like a child. You're not going to be able to think logically. You're not going to be able to plan. You're not going to be able to be, you know, you're just going to have all kinds of craziness because you're a child, right? And so...
You know, like, OK, so I was on the street and drinking some water and this alcoholic came up to me and he was like, hey, you got 50 cents? And I was like, no, I don't. But I have some great water. It was my holy water, by the way, which I was inactivated charcoal water.
It's like the most amazing thing in the world. and I have videos on that, anyway, so I was offering him the water, and he was like, oh no, that's okay, because I don't really drink water, I just drink vodka, and I was like, oh yeah, you should try water, because water is really good,
this water especially is really good, and he was like, He was like, no, it's okay. Thanks. I just drink vodka. And I said, you should love your inner child. Try loving your inner child. And he was like, what do you mean? Oh, he thought I said something else. I was like, no, no. Like I said it again.
He's like, hmm. Oh, you mean like Michael Jackson? I was like, no, actually, Michael Jackson was the inner child. So he was identifying as the inner child. That was not what I'm talking about. Right. Now, of course, you can be some kind of amazing celebrity if your inner child is really like that,
but obviously Michael Jackson had a lot of problems, right? Drug addict and whatever, who knows what else. and it's because you know he was not identified as the parent of his inner child you see the perfect parent of your inner child that's you know that's the goal you
become the perfect parent and of course your parents were not perfect right of course they weren't and they they couldn't be perfect also for many reasons but also because they had to you know take care of you in difficult situations you know and they didn't have any time to think like you
know you're screaming you're screaming and they have to address you immediately when you're screaming they don't have time to think you know whereas you can be the perfect parent of your inner child why because you do have time to think Right. When your inner child is hurting, you can think about this.
You can say, OK, OK, let me let me take some time when I give me like a few minutes. OK. And then you can say, hey, how are you doing? Love you, bunny. And if it feels like too painful, you can say just feather touch like Pema Chodron says in her bookstore where you are.
You feather touch it. Just feather touch and then come back to it when you're ready to come back to it. And you just keep going like this until you get deeper and deeper. So it's not a forceful thing, right? Your parents had to be forceful sometimes, maybe, because the situation required it.
Maybe you were running into the street. They had to, you know, really like shout at you and maybe even spank you or something, you know? but you know anyway so um so yeah a little all over the place with this one sorry but um yeah i was sniffing the holy water ozone activated charcoal fullerines i
think is what it is anyway so No, it's very calming, actually. But then after calming, you get a lot of ideas, too. But anyway. So... Yeah, so I think people are kind of missing the main like kind of metaphorical point of the Bible. And they are identifying as the inner child.
And then they're asking for love from God, which is like, you know, they're guessing God is like up there or something like that. And they can only get the love of God conditionally. Isn't that interesting? God's love is supposed to be unconditional, right? But yet, you can only get it conditionally if you accept Jesus as your Savior.
Only if that. And you also have to believe there are no contradictions in the Bible. It's like perfectly the word of God, right? So basically, you have to shut your brain off. You can't think critically anymore. And you have to judge people who don't accept Jesus. And you say that's why they're suffering, because they...
they're thinking with their brain, they're not, they're not able to just turn the brain off and just say, okay, I accept Jesus forever. And, um, I don't, you know, I will never question anything in the Bible and stuff. Um, so, you know, this is the kind of behavior that happens when somebody, uh,
can only get love in an insecure type of way, conditionally. Like, you know, imagine your parents will only love you if you get straight A's in school. And you're like, but why does that even matter? And then they smack you, right? What the, why would you even ask that question?
Like, you have to get a job and, like, become somebody. Like, you need to go to school, you need to learn, you know, and you're just like, but what? Like, I don't understand. Like, I don't even like school. It's not even, why are they teaching me this and that? And how is this relevant to anything?
And, you know, see, you're not allowed to ask these questions if you want your parents' love. Isn't that crazy? Isn't that crazy? But it's so similar to this religion thing, huh? So similar to that. Very interesting. Now. I'm not anti-Christian, by the way. No, I think like Christianity is like a wonderful thing. You know, God's love. I'm,
you know, I'm a Buddhist, but, you know, Buddha's main teaching for like, you know, the average person was just, you know, loving kindness meditation, basically just, just be loving, just be kind and generous and try to help people and just be good. You know, that was his
main teaching because his deeper teaching that everything is conditioned and you don't exist and it's the illusion of unitary experience is the cause of all suffering. His deeper teaching, you know, very few people could understand that. So that's why he didn't teach that to most people.
and i also realized that also like i i was trying to teach his deeper teaching to all these people for so long and i'm like wait a minute what am i doing this is stupid like this is not what people mostly need they just need to love their inner
child it's amazing it's amazing it is amazing and you know people go to therapists their whole life and they never learned this Isn't that interesting? And if they do learn this, it's in the context of a therapy session. Like, you can only love your inner child when you go to therapy?
What?
That's not going to work. and that'll help a little bit maybe, but anyway, I've, I've, uh, yammered enough, but I think this video is, is very important. Um, hopefully people are, are not, uh, you know, too misunderstanding of, uh, my critique. Um, but, uh, you know, there is this thing called God's love, universal love, whatever, like,
you know, um, It comes from the perfection of reality itself, which Buddha called Nippana, without identity. When there's no identity, when there's no unification of reality, everything is absolutely perfect. Every atom is always functioning perfectly. Did you know that? It's true. They don't ever make mistakes. The electrons don't accidentally do anything. Every atom functions perfectly.
All things function according to natural laws. So that is the source of infinite happiness. And sometimes we touch on that source in different ways. We don't even realize what it is. But it's just seeping through into this illusory kind of dream reality that we're in. Just seeping through sometimes.
And then we feel it and we could call it like God, we could call it like, you know, kind of different things if we don't understand like really exactly what it is, but that's okay. And this perfection, as it seeps through, like imagine you're feeling the perfection.
Now, if you're feeling perfection, what are you gonna feel after that? There's no love in the perfection because there's nobody there. But once you kind of come back to this dream reality after the feeling of perfection, Of course you're going to say, well, I want people to have this feeling, right? And that's called love.
What does love even mean? People don't even know what love means, but it means you want the best. best for somebody you want the ultimate happiness for somebody that's love it doesn't mean you miss somebody you want somebody you enjoy being with somebody no
that's not what it means so you know don't don't don't confuse things it just means you want the best for somebody so if you love your spouse What does that mean? It means you would wish for them to be with the person that makes them the happiest, even if that's not you. Understand? Understand? That's love.
That's real love. so now of course that's very hard to do when you know you're married and you're you're really quite addicted to this person right but anyway when when they divorce you then you can really practice
